
THE POWER OF POSITIVE THINKING 


Since 1932 Dr. Norman Vincent Peale has been 
minister of New York City’s 325-year-old Marble 

Collegiate Church, the oldest Protestant Church in 
~ America. 


Dr. Peale was born in Columbus, Ohio, and was 
graduated in 1920 from Ohio Wesleyan Univer- 
sity. He received the degrees of Master of Arts 
from Boston University and Bachelor of Sacred 
Theology from Boston University School of Theol- 
ogy in 1924. He holds honorary degrees of Doctor 
of Divinity from Syracuse, Ohio Wesleyan, and 
Duke Universities, in addition to the honorary de- 
gree of Doctor of Humane Letters from Lafayette 
College, and the degree of Doctor of Laws from 
William Jewell College. 


Dr. Peale is author of A GUIDE TO CONFI- 
DENT LIVING and THE POWER OF POSITIVE 
THINKING,* the latter the best-selling book in all 
categories in 1953. His radio program, THE ART 
OF LIVING, is carried weekly over the coast-to- 
coast network of the National Broadcasting Com- 


pany, and his syndicated articles appear regularly  


in principal newspapers throughout the United 
States. 


In this album Dr. Peale has selected and nar- 
rated excerpts from the principal subject matter of 
THE POWER OF POSITIVE THINKING, as orig- 
inally published by Prentice-Hall, Inc. 


Supplementing the narration, Dr. Peale has writ- 
_ten, especially for this recording, a supplementary 
series of guides to self-aid which are directly re- 
lated to the subject matter he discusses herein. 
These guides: to self-aid appear below in the same 
order Dr. Peale discusses them. 


Side 1 Band 1 
BELIEVE IN YOURSELF 


1. Stamp indelibly on your mind a mental picture 
of yourself as succeeding. Hold this picture tena- 
ciously. Your mind will seek to develop it. Always 
picture success no matter how badly things seem 
to be going at the moment. 


2. Whenever a negative thought concerning your 
personal powers comes to mind, deliberately voice 
a positive thought to cancel it out. 


3. Do not build up obstacles in your imagination. 
Depreciate every so-called obstacle. Difficulties 


must be studied, but they must be seen for only 


what they are. They. must not be inflated by fear 
thoughts. 


LM-1794 


se 
ae 


Band 2 
HOW YOU LOOK AT IT 


1. Learn the reasons for your inferiority and self- 
doubt feelings. Self-knowledge leads to a cure. 


2. Make a reasonable estimate of your own ability, 
then raise it 10 per cent. Do not become egotistical, 
but develop a wholesome self-respect. Believe in 
your own God-given powers. 


3. Every day repeat these dynamic words, If 
God be for us, who can be against us?’ Let these 
words sink deeply into your mind. They can create 
a victorious thought pattern. 


Band 3 | 
PEACE OF MIND 


]. Think of your mind as the surface of a lake in a 
storm, tossed by waves. But now visualize the waves 
subsiding and the surface of the lake becoming 
placid and unruffled. 


2. Make a mental list of times in your life when 
you were worried and anxious, and God brought 
things out right and took care of you. Affirm that 
He will do so now. Repeat the following, which has 
an amazing power to relax and quiet the mind: 
Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace, whose mind 
is stayed on Thee. 


Band 4 
7 TRY PRAYER POWER 


1. Set aside a few minutes every day. Simply 
practice thinking about God. This will make your 
mind spiritually receptive and give you a sense of 
His presence. 


2. Pray with the belief that sincere prayers can 
reach out and surround your loved ones with God’s 
love and protection. 


3. Never use a negative thought in prayer. Only 
positive thoughts get results. The prayer of faith is 
powerful. 


4. Practice the attitude of putting everything in 
God’s hands. Ask for the ability to do your best and 
to leave the results confidently to God. 


Side 2. Band 1 
EXPECT THE BEST AND GET IT 


1. Hold four great words in your thoughts, say 
them over and over again until your mind accepts 
them, until you believe them  faith power works 
wonders. 


2. Eliminate from your thought and speech the 
‘little negatives, such as T’ll have a flat tire, I 





Norman Vincent Peale 


don’t think I can do that. As mighty oaks from 
little acorns grow, so little negatives will grow 
into big negatives. | 


3. Apply to every situation the promise: Accord- 
ing to your faith be it unto you. Use the faith power 
which lies within you; you will find the possibili- 
ties limitless. : 


Band 2 
HOW TO BREAK THE WORRY HABIT 


1. Overcome worry by practicing faith. First thing 
every morning before you arise say out loud, I 


-believe,’ three times. 
9 


2. Practice saying something positive concerning 
everything about which you have been talking nega- 
tively. Talk positively. Don’t say, I can’t. In- 
stead, affirm, With God’s help I can.


3. Never participate in a worry conversation. 
Shoot an injection of faith into all your conversa- 
tions. 


4. To counteract worry, mark every passage in the 
Bible that speaks of faith, hope, happiness. Commit 
each to memory. Say them over and over again 
until these creative thoughts saturate your subcon- 
scious mind. Then the subconscious will return to 
you what you have given it, namely, positive atti- 
tudes, not worry. 


Band 3 
HOW TO SOLVE YOUR PROBLEMS 


1. To solve a problem believe that for every prob- 
lem there is a solution. 


2. Keep calm. Tension blocks the flow of creative 


_ thought power. Your brain cannot operate effi- 


ciently under stress. Go at your problem easy-like. 


3. Pray for guidance about your problem, believ- 
ing and affirming that God will flash illumination 
into your mind. 


Band 4 : 
HOW TO RELAX 


1. To live with joyous power, master the art of 
easy does it. 


2. Don’t get the idea you are Atlas carrying the 
world on your shoulders. Don’t strain so hard. 
Don’t take yourself so seriously. 


3. Ease or difficulty in your work depends upon 
how you think about it. Think it’s hard and you 
make it hard. Think it’s easy and it tends to become 


easy. 

Band 1 Believe in Yourself 
