LOUISE L. HAY 

INCLUDES A NEW AFTERWORD 




OVER 30 MILLION COPIES SOLD WORLDWIDE 




You Cm HeaC 
Your Life 

Louise L. Hay 




HAY HOUSE, INC. 

Australia • Canada • Hong Kong 
South Africa • United Kingdon • United States 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 
by Louise L. Hay 



Copyright © 1984, 1987, 2004 by Louise L. Hay 

Published and distributed in the United Kingdom by: Hay House UK Ltd *U t 67 
Canalot Studios • 222 Kensal Rd., London W10 5BN • Phone: 44-20-8962-0™’ 
Fax: 44-20-8962-1239 • www.hayhouse.co.uk • Published and distributed in the 
United States by: Hay House, Inc., RO. Box 5100, Carlsbad, CA 92018-5100 • 
Phone: (760) 431-7695 or (800) 654-5126 • Fax: (760) 431-6948 or (800) 650- 
5115 • www.hayhouse.com • Published and distributed in Australia by: Hay House 
Australia Pty. Ltd., 18/36 Ralph St., Alexandria NSW 2015 • Phone: 612-9669-4299 
• Fax: 612-9669-4144 • www.hayhouse.com.au • Published and distributed in the 
Republic of South Africa by: Hay House SA (Pty), Ltd., RO. Box 990, Witkoppen 
2068 • Phone/Fax: 2711-7012233 • orders@psdprom.co.za • Distributed in Canada 
by: Raincoast • 9050 Shaughnessy St., Vancouver, B.C. V6P 6E5 • Phone- (604) 
323-7100 • Fax: (604) 323-2600 



Portions of Chapter 15 are from Heal Your Body by Louise L. Hay 

All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced by any mechanical, 
photographic, or electronic process, or in the form of a phonographic recording, 
nor may it be stored in a retrieval system, transmitted, or otherwise be copied 
for public or private use — other than for “fair use” as brief quotations embodied 
in articles and reviews without prior written permission of the publisher. 

The author of this book does not dispense medical advice nor prescribe the use 
of any technique as a form of treatment for physical or medical problems with- 
out the advice of a physician, either directly or indirectly. The intent of the 
author is only to offer information of a general nature to help you in your quest 
for physical fitness and good health. In the event you use any of the information 
in this book for yourself, which is your constitutional right, the author and the 
publisher assume no responsibility for your actions. 

A catalogue record of this book is available from the British Library 

ISBN 0-937611-01-8 



07 06 05 04 4 3 2 1 

1st printing in UK, August 2004 



Printed in Europe by Imago 




Dedication 

May this offering help you find the place within where you know 
your own self-worth, the part of you that is pure love and self- 
acceptance. 




AcknowCedegments 



I acknowledge with joy and pleasure: 

My many students and clients who taught me so much and 
who first encouraged me to put my ideas down on paper. 

My dedicated staff at Hay House, who share my dream of 
disseminating books, audios, and videos that help to heal 
the planet spiritually, emotionally, and physically. 

My wonderful readers and listeners, who have shown their 
loving support for my work and who continue to be a source 
of inspiration for me. 

All those whose hearts are opening more and more each day. 

My dear friends throughout the world, who surround me 
with unconditional love, laughter, and just plain fun! 




Contents 

Foreword vii 

Parti 

Introduction 

Suggestions to My Readers xi 

Some Points of My Philosophy xiii 

Chapter 1 What I Believe 1 

Part II 

A Session with Louise 

Chapter Z What Is the Problem? 13 

Chapter 3 Where Does It Come From? 25 

chapter 4 Is It True? 33 

Chapter 5 What Do We Do Now? 41 

Chapter 6 Resistance to Change 49 

Chapter 7 How to Change 63 

Chapter 8 Building the New 75 

Chapter 9 Daily Work 87 




PartHI 

Putting These. Ideas to Work 

Chapter 10 Relationships gg 

Chapter 11 Work 105 

Chapter 12 Success 209 

Chapter 13 Prosperity 213 

Chapter 14 The Body 223 

Chapter 15 The List 245 

Part IV 
Conclusion 

Chapter 16 My Story 215 

Afterword 225 

Deep at the Center 231 

Appendix 

Holistic Healing Recommendations 232 

Self-Help Resources 234 

Index 243 

Also by Louise L. Hay 251 

About Louise L. Hay 253 




Foreword 



If I were cast away on a desert island and could have only one 
book with me there, I might well choose Louise L. Hay’s You Can 
Heal Your Life. 

Not only is it the essence of a great teacher, it is also the powerful 
and very personal statement of a great lady. 

Louise shares some of her journey to where she is in her evolve- 
ment now in this wonderful new book. I resonated in admiration 
and in compassion to her story — too briefly sketched here, in my 
view, but perhaps that’s another book. 

It’s all here, is my point. All you need to know about life, its les- 
sons and how to do the work on yourself is right here. And this 
includes Louise’s reference guide to probable mental patterns behind 
dis-ease, which is truly remarkable and unique — in my experience. 
A person on a desert island who found this manuscript in a bottle 
could learn all he or she needs to know to make this life be the one 
that gets the job done. 

Desert island or not, if you have found your way to Louise Hay, 
perhaps even “accidentally,” you’re well on your way. Louise’s books, 
her remarkable healing tapes, and her inspired workshops are won- 
derful gifts to a troubled world. 

It was my own deep investment in working with persons with 
aids that led me to meeting Louise and utilizing concepts from her 
healing work. 

Each aids person I worked with and for whom I played Louise’s 
tape, A Positive Approach to AIDS, got Louise’s message on the first 



vii 




hearing — and many made playing this tape part of their daily heal- 
ing ritual. One man named Andrew told me, “I go to bed with 
Louise, and I get up to her every day!” 

My respect and love for Louise grew as I observed my beloved 
aids people make their transitions enriched and at peace and com- 
plete — more full of love and forgiveness for themselves and every- 
one else for having had Louise in their lives — and with a quiet 
respect for having created that precise learning experience. 

I have been gifted in my life with many great teachers, some of them 
saints, I’m sure, and even avatars, perhaps. Yet Louise is a great 
teacher one can speak with and be with because of her enormous 
capacity to listen and to be in unconditional love while sharing 
doing the dishes. (In the same way another teacher I hold as great 
makes terrific potato salad.) Louise teaches by example and lives 
what she teaches. 

1 am deeply honored to invite you to make this book part of your 
life. You — and it — are worth it! 

DAVE BRAUN 

VENTURES IN SELF-FULFILLMENT 
DANA POINT, CALIFORNIA 



viu 




Part I 

INTRODUCTION 




Suggestions to My Readers 

I have written this book to share with you, my readers, that which 
1 know and teach. It incorporates portions of my little blue book, 
Heal Your Body, which has become widely accepted as an authorita- 
tive work on the mental patterns that create dis-eases in the body. 

I have had hundreds of letters from readers asking me to share 
more of my information. Many persons who have worked with me 
as private clients, and those who have taken my workshops here and 
abroad, have requested I take the time to write this book. 

I have set up this book to take you through a session, just as I 
would if you came to me as a private client and attended one of my 
workshops. 

If you will do the exercises progressively as they appear in the 
book, by the time you have finished, you will have begun to change 
your life. 

I suggest you read through the book once. Then slowly read it 
again, only this time do each exercise in depth. Give yourself time to 
work with each one. 

If you can, work through the exercises with a friend or with a 
member of your family. 

Each chapter opens with an affirmation. Each of these is good to 
use when you are working on that area of your life. Take two or three 
days to study and work with each chapter. Keep saying and writing 
the affirmation that opens the chapter. 



XI 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



The chapters close with a treatment. This is a flow of positive 
ideas designed to change consciousness. Read over this treatment 
several times a day. 

I close this book by sharing with you my own story. I know it will 
show you that no matter where we have come from or how lowly it 
was, we can totally change our lives for the better. 

Know that when you work with these ideas, my loving support is 
with you. 




Some Points 
of My Philosophy 



We are each responsible for all of our experiences. 

Every thought we think is creating our future. 

The point of power is always in the present moment. 

Everyone suffers from self-hatred and guilt. 

The bottom line for everyone is, 

“I’m not good enough.” 

It’s only a thought, and a thought can be changed. 

We create every so-called illness in our body. 

Resentment, criticism, and guilt 
are the most damaging patterns. 

Releasing resentment will dissolve even cancer. 

We must release the past and forgive everyone. 

We must be willing to begin to learn to love ourselves. 

Self-approval and self-acceptance in the now 
are the keys to positive changes. 

When we really love ourselves, everything in our life works. 





In the infinity of life where I am, all is perfect, 
whole, and complete, and yet life is ever changing. 

There is no beginning and no end, 
only a constant cycling and recycling 
of substance and experiences. 

Life is never stuck or static or stale, 
for each moment is ever new and fresh. 

I am one with the very Power that created me, and tfiis Power 
has given me the power to create my own circumstances. 

I rgoice in tfte knowledge that I have the power 
of my own mind to use in any way I choose. 

Every moment of life is a new beginning point 
as we move jrom the old. Tfiis moment is a new point 
of beginning for me right here and right now. 

All is well in my world. 




Chapter One 

WHAT I BELIEVE 

“The gateways to wisdom and knowledge 

are always open.” 



Life Is Really Very Simple. What We Give 
Out, We Get Back 

What we think about ourselves becomes the truth for us. I believe 
that everyone, myself included, is responsible for everything in our 
lives, the best and the worst. Every thought we think is creating our 
future. Each one of us creates our experiences by our thoughts and 
our feelings. The thoughts we think and the words we speak create 
our experiences. 

We create the situations, and then we give our power away by 
blaming the other person for our frustration. No person, no place, 
and no thing has any power over us, for “we” are the only thinkers 
in it. When we create peace and harmony and balance in our minds, 
we will find it in our lives. 

Which of these statements sounds like you? 

“People are out to get me.” 

“Everyone is always helpful.” 

Each one of these beliefs will create quite different experiences. 
What we believe about ourselves and about life becomes true for us. 



1 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



The Universe Totally Supports Us in Every Thought We 
Choose to Think and Believe 

Put another way, our subconscious mind accepts whatever we 
choose to believe. They both mean that what 1 believe about myself 
and about life becomes true for me. What you choose to think about 
yourself and about life becomes true for you. And we have unlimit- 
ed choices about what we can think. 

When we know this, then it makes sense to choose “Everyone is 
always helpful,” rather than “People are out to get me.” 



The Universal Power Never Judges or Criticizes Us 

It only accepts us at our own value. Then it reflects our beliefs in 
our lives. If I want to believe that life is lonely and that nobody loves 
me, then that is what I will find in my world. 

However, if I am willing to release that belief and to affirm for 
myself that “Love is everywhere, and 1 am loving and lovable,” and 
to hold on to that new affirmation and to repeat it often, then it will 
become true for me. Now, loving people will come into my life, the 
people already in my life will become more loving to me, and I will 
find myself easily expressing love to others. 



Most of Us Have Foolish Ideas about Who We Are and 
Many, Many Rigid Rules about How Life Ought to Be Lived 

This is not to condemn us, for each of us is doing the very best we 
can at this very moment. If we knew better, if we had more under- 
standing and awareness, then we would do it differently. Please dont 
put yourself down for being where you are. The very fact that you 
have found this book and have discovered me means that you are 
ready to make a new, positive change in your life. Acknowledge 
yourself for this. “Men don’t cry!” “Women can’t handle money! 
What limiting ideas to live with. 



2 




What I Believe 



When We Are Very Little, We Learn How to Feel about 
Ourselves and about Life by the Reactions of the Adults 
Around Us 

It is the way we learn what to think about ourselves and about our 
world. Now, if you lived with people who were very unhappy, fright- 
ened, guilty, or angry, then you learned a lot of negative things about 
yourself and about your world. 

“1 never do anything right.” ‘it’s my fault.” “If I get angry, I’m a 
bad person.” 

Beliefs like this create a frustrating life. 



When We Grow Up, We Have a Tendency to Re-create the 
Emotional Environment of Our Early Home Life 

This is not good or bad, right or wrong; it is just what we know 
inside as “home.” We also tend to recreate in our personal relation- 
ships the relationships we had with our mothers or with our fathers, 
or what they had between them. Think how often you have had a 
lover or a boss who was “just like” your mother or father. 

We also treat ourselves the way our parents treated us. We scold 
and punish ourselves in the same way. You can almost hear the 
words when you listen. We also love and encourage ourselves in the 
same way, if we were loved and encouraged as children. 

“You never do anything right.” “It’s all your fault.” How often 
have you said this to yourself? 

“You are wonderful.” “I love you.” How often do you tell your- 
self this? 



However, I Would Not Blame Our Parents for This 

We are all victims of victims, and they could not possibly have 
taught us anything they did not know. If your mother did not know 
how to love herself, or your father did not know how to love himself, 
then it would be impossible for them to teach you to love yourself. 



3 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



They were doing the best they could with what they had been taught 
as children. If you want to understand your parents more, get them 
to talk about their own childhood; and if you listen with compassion, 
you will leam where their fears and rigid patterns come from. Those 
people who “did all that stuff to you” were just as frightened and 
scared as you are. 



I Believe That We Choose Our Parents 

Each one of us decides to incarnate upon this planet at a particu- 
lar point in time and space. We have chosen to come here to learn a 
particular lesson that will advance us upon our spiritual, evolution- 
ary pathway. We choose our sex, our color, our country, and then we 
look around for the particular set of parents who will mirror the pat- 
tern we are bringing in to work on in this lifetime. Then, when we 
grow up, we usually point our fingers accusingly at our parents and 
whimper, “You did it to me.” But really, we chose them because they 
were perfect for what we wanted to work on overcoming. 

We learn our belief systems as very little children, and then we 
move through life creating experiences to match our beliefs. Look 
back in your own life and notice how often you have gone through 
the same experience. Well, I believe you created those experiences 
over and over because they mirrored something you believed about 
yourself. It doesn’t really matter how long we have had a problem, or 
how big it is, or how life-threatening it is. 



The Point of Power Is Always in the Present Moment 

All the events you have experienced in your lifetime up to this 
moment have been created by your thoughts and beliefs you have 
held in the past. They were created by the thoughts and words you 
used yesterday, last week, last month, last year, 10, 20, 30, 40, or 
more years ago, depending on how old you are. 

However, that is your past. It is over and done with. What is 
important in this moment is what you are choosing to think and 



4 




What I Believe 



believe and say right now. For these thoughts and words will create 
your future. Your point of power is in the present moment and is 
forming the experience of tomorrow, next week, next month, next 
year, and so on. 

You might notice what thought you are thinking at this moment. 
Is it negative or positive? Do you want this thought to be creating 
your future? Just notice and be aware. 



The Only Thing We Are Ever Dealing With Is a Thought, 
and a Thought Can Be Changed 

No matter what the problem is, our experiences are just outer 
effects of inner thoughts. Even self-hatred is only hating a thought 
you have about yourself. You have a thought that says, “I’m a bad 
person.” This thought produces a feeling, and you buy into the feel- 
ing. However, if you don’t have the thought, you won’t have the feel- 
ing. And thoughts can be changed. Change the thought, and the 
feeling must go. 

This is only to show us where we get many of our beliefs. But 
let’s not use this information as an excuse to stay stuck in our pain. 
The past has no power over us. It doesn’t matter how long we have 
had a negative pattern. The point of power is in the present 
moment. What a wonderful thing to realize! We can begin to be 
free in this moment! 



Believe It or Not, We Do Choose Our Thoughts 

We may habitually think the same thought over and over so that 
it does not seem we are choosing the thought. But we did make the 
original choice. We can refuse to think certain thoughts. Look how 
often you have refused to think a positive thought about yourself. 
Well, you can also refuse to think a negative thought about yourself. 

It seems to me that everyone on this planet whom I know or have 
worked with is suffering from self-hatred and guilt to one degree or 
another. The more self-hatred and guilt we have, the less our lives 



5 ' 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



work. The less self-hatred and guilt we have, the better our lives 
work, on all levels. 



The Innermost Belief for Everyone I Have Worked with Is 
Always, “I’m Not Good Enough!” 

We often add to that, “And I don’t do enough,” or “I don’t 
deserve.” Does this sound like you? Often saying or implying or feel- 
ing that you “are not good enough”? But for whom? And according 
to whose standards? 

If this belief is very strong in you, then how can you possibly have 
created a loving, joyous, prosperous, healthy life? Somehow your 
main subconscious belief would always be contradicting it. 
Somehow you would never quite get it together, for something 
would always be going wrong somewhere. 

I Find That Resentment, Criticism, Guilt, and Fear Cause 
More Problems Than Anything Else 

These four things cause the major problems in our bodies and in 
our lives. These feelings come from blaming others and not taking 
responsibility for our own experiences. You see, if we are all respon- 
sible for everything in our lives, then there is no one to blame. 
Whatever is happening “out there” is only a mirror of our own inner 
thinking. I am not cqndoiiing other people’s poor behavior, but it is 
OUR beliefs that attract people who will treat us that way. 

If you find yourself saying, “Everyone always does such and such 
to me, criticizes me, is never there for me, uses me like a doormat, 
abuses me,” then this is YOUR PATTERN. There is some thought in 
you that attracts people who exhibit this behavior. When you no 
longer think that way, they will go elsewhere and do that to some- 
body else. You will no longer attract them. 

Following are some results of patterns that manifest on the phys- 
ical level: Resentment that is long held can eat away at the body and 



6 




What I Believe 



become the dis-ease we call cancer. Criticism as a permanent habit 
can often lead to arthritis in the body. Guilt always looks for pun- 
ishment, and punishment creates pain. (When a client comes to me 
with a lot of pain, I know they are holding a lot of guilt.) Fear, and 
the tension it produces, can create things like baldness, ulcers, and 
even sore feet. 

I have found that forgiving and releasing resentment will dissolve 
even cancer. While this may sound simplistic, I have seen and expe- 
rienced it working. 



We Can Change Our Attitude Toward the Past 

The past is over and done. We cannot change that now. Yet we can 
change our thoughts about the past. How foolish for us to PUNISH 
OURSELVES in the present moment because someone hurt us in the 
long ago past. 

I often say to people who have deep resentment patterns, “Please 
begin to dissolve the resentment now, when it is relatively easy. Don’t 
wait until you are under the threat of a surgeon’s knife or on your 
death bed, when you may have to deal with pariic, too.” 

When we are in a state of panic, it is very difficult to focus our 
minds on the healing work. We have to take time out to dissolve the 
fears first. 

If we choose to believe we are helpless victims and that it’s all 
hopeless, then the Universe will support us in that belief, and we will 
just go down the drain. It is vital that we release these foolish, out- 
moded, negative ideas and beliefs that do not support us and nour- 
ish us. Even our concept of God needs to be one that is for us, not 
against us. 



To Release the Past, We Must Be Willing to Forgive 

We need to choose to release the past and forgive everyone, our- 
selves included. We may not know how to forgive, and we may not 



7 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



want to forgive, but the very fact that we say we are willing to for- 
give begins the healing process. It is imperative for our own healing 
that “we” release the past and forgive everyone. 

“I forgive you for not being the way 1 wanted you to be. 1 forgive 
you and I set you free.” 

This affirmation sets us free. 



All Dis-ease Comes from a State of Unforgiveness 

Whenever we are ill, we need to search our hearts to see who it is 
we need to forgive. 

The Course in Miracles says that “all dis-ease comes from a state 
of unforgiveness,” and that “whenever we are ill, we need to look 
around to see who it is that we need to forgive.” 

I would add to that concept that the very person you find it hard- 
est to forgive is the one YOU NEED TO LET GO OF THE MOST. 
Forgiveness means giving up, letting go. It has nothing to with con- 
doning behavior. It’s just letting the whole thing go. We do not have 
to know HOW to forgive. All we need to do is to be WILLING to for- 
give. The Universe will take care of the hows. 

We understand our own pain so well. How hard it is for most of 
us to understand that THEY, whoever they are we need most to for- 
give, were also in pain. We need to understand that they were doing 
the best they could with the understanding, awareness, and knowl- 
edge they had at that time. 

When people come to me with a problem, I don’t care what it is 
— poor health, lack of money, unfulfilling relationships, or stifled 
creativity — there is only one thing 1 ever work on, and that is LOV- 
ING THE SELF 

I find that when we really love and accept and APPROVE OF 
OURSELVES EXACTLY AS WE ARE, then everything in life works. 
It’s as if litde miracles are everywhere. Our health improves, we 
attract more money, our relationships become much more fulfilling, 
and we begin to express ourselves in creatively fulfilling ways. All 
this seems to happen without our even trying. 



8 




What I Believe 



Loving and approving of yourself, creating a space of safety, trust- 
ing and deserving and accepting, will create organization in your 
mind, create more loving relationships in your life, attract a new job 
and a new and better place to live, and even enable your body weight 
to normalize. People who love themselves and their bodies neither 
abuse themselves nor others. 

Self-approval and self-acceptance in the now are the main keys to 
positive changes in every area of our lives. 

Loving the self, to me, begins with never ever criticizing ourselves 
for anything. Criticism locks us into the very pattern we are trying to 
change. Understanding and being gentle with ourselves helps us to 
move out of it. Remember, you have been criticizing yourself for years, 
and it hasn’t worked. Try approving of yourself and see what happens. 



In tfie inanity of life, where I am, 
all is perfect, whole, and complete. 

I believe in a power far greater than I am 
that flows through me every moment of every day. 

I open myself to the wisdom within, 
knowing that there is only One Intelligence in this Universe. 
Out of this One Intelligence comes all the answers, 
all the solutions, all the healings, all the new creations. 

I trust this Power and Intelligence, 
knowing that whatever I need to know is revealed to me, 
and that whatever I need comes to me 
in the right time, space, and sequence. 

All is well in my world. 



9 




Part II 

A SESSION WITH LOUISE 





Chapter Two 

WHAT IS THE 
PROBLEM? 



“It is safe to look within.” 



My Body Doesn’t Work 

It hurts, bleeds, aches, oozes, twists, blows up, limps, bums, ages, 
can’t see, can’t hear, is rotting away, and so on. Plus whatever else 
you may have created. I think I have heard them all. 



My Relationships Don’t Work 

They are smothering, absent, demanding, don’t support me, 
always criticizing me, unloving, never leave me alone, pick on me all 
the time, don’t want to be bothered with me, walk all over me, never 
listen to me, and so on. Plus whatever else you may have created. 
Yes, I have heard them all, too. 



My Finances Don’t Work 

They are nonexistent, seldom there, never enough, just out of 
reach, go out faster than they come in, won’t cover the bills, slip 
through my fingers, and so on. Plus whatever else you may have 
created. Of course, I have heard them all. 



13 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



My Life Doesn’t Work 

I never get to do what I want to do. I can’t please anyone. I don’t 
know what I want to do. There is never any time for me. My needs 
and desires are always left out. I’m only doing this to please them. I 
am just a doormat. Nobody cares what I want to do. I have no talent 
I can’t do anything right. All I do is procrastinate. Nothing ever 
works for me, and so on. Plus whatever else you have created for 
yourself. All these I have heard and more. 

Whenever I ask a new client what is going on in his or her life, I 
usually get one of the above answers. Or maybe several of these 
answers. They really think they know the problem. But I know these 
complaints are only outer effects of inner thought patterns. Beneath 
the inner thought patterns is another deeper, more fundamental pat- 
tern that is the basis of all the outer effects. 

I listen to the words they use as I ask some basic questions: 

What is happening in your life? 

How is your health? 

What do you do for a living? 

Do you like your work? 

How are your finances? 

How is your love life? 

How did the last relationship end? 

And the relationship before that, how did it end? 

Tell me about your childhood, briefly. 

I watch the body postures and the facial movements. But most- 
ly I really listen to the words they say. Thoughts and words create 
our future experiences. As I listen to them talk, I can readily under- 
stand why they have these particular problems. The words we 
speak are indicative of our inner thoughts. Sometimes, the words 
they use do not match the experiences they describe. Then I know 
that they are either not in touch with what is really going on or 
they are lying to me. Either one is a starting point and gives us a 
basis from which to begin. 



14 




What Is the Problem? 



Exercise: I Should 

The next thing I do is to give them a pad and pen and ask 
them to write on the top of a piece of paper: 

I SHOULD 



They are to make a list of five or six ways to finish that sentence. 
Some people find it difficult to begin, and some have so many things 
to write that it’s hard for them to stop. 

I then ask them to read the list to me one at a time, beginning each 
sentence with “I Should. . .” As they read each one, 1 ask, “Why?” 

The answers that come out are interesting and revealing, such as: 

My mother said I should. 

Because I am afraid not to. 

Because I have to be perfect. 

Well, everybody has to do that. 

Because I am too lazy, too short, too tall, too fat, too thin, too 
dumb, too ugly, too worthless. 

These answers show me where they are stuck in their beliefs and 
what they think their limitations are. 

I make no comments on their answers. When they are through 
with their list, I talk about the word SHOULD. 

You see, I believe that should is one of the most damaging words 
in our language. Every time we use should, we are, in effect, saying 
“wrong.” Either we are wrong or we were wrong or we are going to be 
wrong. I don’t think we need more wrongs in our life. We need to 
have more freedom of choice. 1 would like to take the word should 
and remove it from the vocabulary forever. I’d replace it with the 
word could. Could gives us choice, and we are never wrong. 



15 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



I then ask them to reread the list one item at a time, except this 
time to begin each sentence by saying, “If I really wanted to, I could 
This puts a whole new light on the subject. 

As they do this, I ask them gently, “Why haven’t you?” Now we 
hear different answers: 

I don’t want to. 

I am afraid. 

I don’t know how. 

Because I am not good enough. 

And so on. 

We often find they have been berating themselves for years for 
something they never wanted to do in the first place. Or they have 
been criticizing themselves for not doing something when it was 
never their idea to begin with. Often it was just something that 
someone else said they “should” do. When they can see that, they 
can just drop it from the “should list.” What a relief that is. 

Look at all the people who try to force themselves for years into a 
career they don’t even like only because their parents said they 
“should” become a dentist or a teacher. How often have we felt infe- 
rior because we were told we “should” be smarter or richer or more 
creative like some relative. 

What is there on your “should list” that could be dropped with a 
sense of relief? 

By the time we have gone through this short list, they are begin- 
ning to look at their life in a new and different way. They notice that 
many of the things they thought they “should” do are things they 
never wanted to do, and they were only trying to please other peo- 
ple. So many times it is because they are afraid or feel they are not 
good enough. 

The problem has now begun to shift. 1 have started the process of 
releasing the feeling of “being wrong” because they are not fitting 
someone else’s standards. 

Next I begin to explain to them my philosophy of life as I did in 
Chapter One. I believe life is really very simple. What we give out, 



16 




What Is the Problem? 



we get back. The Universe totally supports every thought we choose 
to think and to believe. When we are little, we leant how to feel 
about ourselves and about life by the reactions of the adults around 
us. Whatever these beliefs are, they will be recreated as experiences 
as we grow up. However, we are only dealing with thought patterns, 
and the point of power is always in the present moment. Changes can 
begin in this moment. 



Loving the Self 

I continue to explain that no matter what their problem seems to 
be, there is only one thing I ever work on with anyone, and this is 
Loving the Self. Love is the miracle cure. Loving ourselves works mir- 
acles in our lives. 

I am not talking about vanity or arrogance or being stuck-up, for 
that is not love. It is only fear. I am talking about having a great 
respect for ourselves and a gratitude for the miracle of our bodies 
and our minds. 

“Love” to me is appreciation to such a degree that it fills my heart 
to bursting and overflows. Love can go in any direction. I can feel 
love for: 

The very process of life itself. 

The joy of being alive. 

The beauty I see. 

Another person. 

Knowledge. 

The process of the mind. 

Our bodies and the way they work. 

Animals, birds, fish. 

Vegetation in all its forms. 

The Universe and the way it works. 

What can you add to this list? 

Let's look at some of the ways we don’t love ourselves: 



17 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



We scold and criticize ourselves endlessly. 

We mistreat our bodies with food, alcohol, and drugs. 

We choose to believe we are unlovable. 

We are afraid to charge a decent price for our services. 

We create illnesses and pain in our bodies. 

We procrastinate on things that would benefit us. 

We live in chaos and disorder. 

We create debt and burdens. 

We attract lovers and mates who belittle us. 

What are some of your ways? 

If we deny our good in any way, it is an act of not loving ourselves. 
I remember a client I worked with who wore glasses. One day we 
released an old fear from childhood. The next day she awakened to 
find her contact lenses were bothering her too much to wear. She 
looked around and found her eyesight was perfectly clear. 

Yet she spent the whole day saying, “1 don’t believe it, I don’t 
believe it.” The next day she was back to wearing contacts. Our sub- 
conscious mind has no sense of humor. She couldn’t believe she had 
created perfect eyesight. 

Lack of self-worth is another expression of not loving ourselves. 

Tom was a very good artist, and he had some wealthy clients who 
asked him to decorate a wall or two in their homes. Yet somehow he 
was always behind in his own bill paying. His original quote was 
never enough to cover the time involved to complete the work. 
Anyone who gives a service or creates a one-of-a-kind product can 
charge any price. People with wealth love to pay a lot for what they 
get; it gives the item more value. More examples: 

Our partner is tired and grouchy. We wonder what we have 
done wrong to cause it. 

He takes us out once or twice and never calls again. We think 
something must be wrong with us. 

Our marriage ends, and we are sure we are a failure. 

We are afraid to ask for a raise. 

Our bodies do not match those in Gentlemans Quarterly or 



18 




What Is the Problem? 



Vogue magazine, and we feel inferior. 

We don’t “make the sale,” or “get the part,” and we are sure we 
are “not good enough.” 

We are afraid of intimacy and allowing anyone to get too close, 
so we have anonymous sex. 

We can’t make decisions because we are sure they will be 
wrong. 

How do you express your lack of self-worth? 



The Perfection of Babies 

How perfect you were when you were a tiny baby. Babies do not have 
to do anything to become perfect; they already are perfect, and they 
act as if they know it. They know they are the center of the Universe. 
They are not afraid to ask for what they want. They freely express 
their emotions. You know when a baby is angry — in fact, the whole 
neighborhood knows. You also know when babies are happy, for 
their smiles light up a room. They are full of love. 

Tiny babies will die if they do not get love. Once we are older, we 
learn to live without love, but babies will not stand for it. Babies also 
love every part of their bodies, even their own feces. They have 
incredible courage. 

You were like that. We were all like that. Then we began to listen 
to adults around us who had learned to be fearful, and we began to 
deny our own magnificence. 

I never believe it when clients try to convince me how terrible 
they are, or how unlovable they are. My work is to bring them back 
to the time when they knew how to really love themselves. 

Exercise: Mirror 

Next, 1 ask clients to pick up a small mirror, look into 
their own eyes, and say their names and, “1 love and 
accept you exactly as you are.” 

This is so difficult for many people. Seldom do I get a calm reac- 
tion, let alone enjoyment from this exercise. Some cry or are close to 



19 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



tears, some get angry, some belittle their features or qualities, some 
insist they CAN’T do it. I even had one man throw the mirror across 
the room and want to run away. It took him several months before 
he could begin to relate to himself in the mirror. 

For years I looked into the mirror only to criticize what I saw 
there. Recalling the endless hours I spent plucking my eyebrows try- 
ing to make myself barely acceptable amuses me now. I remember it 
used to frighten me to look into my own eyes. 

This simple exercise shows me so much. In less than an hour, I 
am able to get to some of the core issues that are beneath the outer 
problem. If we work only on the level of the problem, we can spend 
endless time working out each and every detail; and the minute we 
think we have it all “fixed up,” it will crop up somewhere else. 



“The Problem” Is Rarely the Real Problem 

She was so concerned with her looks, and especially with her 
teeth. She went from dentist to dentist feeling each one had only 
made her look worse. She went to have her nose fixed, and they did 
a poor job. Each professional was mirroring her belief that she was 
ugly. Her problem was not her looks, but that she was convinced 
something was wrong with her. 

There was another woman who had terrible breath. It was uncom- 
fortable to be around her. She was studying to be a minister, and her 
outer demeanor was pioui and s piritu al- Beneath this was a raging 
current of anger and jealousy that exploded now and then when she 
thought someone might be threatening her position. Her inner 
thoughts were expressed through her breath, and she was offensive 
even when she pretended to be loving. No one threatened her but 

herself. . , 

He was only 15 when his mother brought him to me wit 
Hodgkin’s dis-ease and three months to live. His mother was un er 
standably hysterical and difficult to deal with, but the boy was 
and clever and wanted to live. He was willing to do anything I t0 
him to, including changing the way he thought and spoke. His sep 



20 




What Is the Problem? 



arated parents were always arguing, and he really did not have a set- 
tled home life. 

He wanted desperately to be an actor. The pursuit of fame and for- 
tune far outweighed his ability to experience joy. He thought he 
could be acceptable and worthwhile only if he had fame. I taught 
him to love and accept himself, and he got well. He is now grown up 
and appears on Broadway with regularity. As he learned to experi- 
ence the joy of being himself, the parts in plays opened up for him. 

Overweight is another good example of how we can waste a lot of 
energy trying to correct a problem that is not the real problem. 
People often spend years and years fighting fat and are still over- 
weight. They blame all their problems on being overweight. The 
excess weight is only an outer effect of a deep inner problem. To me, 
it is always fear and a need for protection. When we feel frightened 
or insecure or “not good enough,” many of us will put on extra 
weight for protection. 

To spend our time berating ourselves for being too heavy, to feel 
guilty about every bite of food we eat, to do all the numbers we do 
on ourselves when we gain weight, is just a waste of time. Twenty 
years later we can still be in the same situation because we have not 
even begun to deal with the real problem. All that we have done is 
to make ourselves more frightened and insecure, and then we need 
more weight for protection. 

So I refuse to focus on excess weight or on diets. For diets do not 
work. The only diet that does work is a mental diet — dieting from 
negative thoughts. I say to clients, “Let us just put that issue to one 
side for the time being while we work on a few other things first.” 

They will often tell me they can’t love themselves because they are 
so fat, or as one girl put it, “too round at the edges.” I explain that 
they are fat because they don’t love themselves. When we begin to 
love and approve of ourselves, it’s amazing how weight just disap- 
pears from our bodies. 

Sometimes clients even get angry with me as I explain how sim- 
ple it is to change their lives. They may feel I do not understand their 
problems. One woman became very upset and said, “I came here to 



21 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



get help with my dissertation, not to learn to love myself.” To me it 
was so obvious that her main problem was a lot of self-hatred, and 
this permeated every part of her life, including the writing of her 
dissertation. She could not succeed at anything as long as she felt so 
worthless. 

She couldn’t hear me and left in tears, coming back one year later 
with the same problem plus a lot of other problems. Some people are 
not ready, and there is no judgment. We all begin to make our 
changes in the right time, space, and sequence for us. 1 did not even 
begin to make my changes until I was in my forties. 



The Real Problem 

So here is a client who has just looked into the harmless little mir- 
ror, and he or she is all upset. I smile with delight and say, “Good, 
now we are looking at the ‘real problem’; now we can begin to clear 
out what is really standing in your way.” 1 talk more about loving the 
self, about how, for me, loving the self begins with never, ever criti- 
cizing ourselves for anything. 

I watch their faces as I ask them if they criticize themselves. Their 
reactions tell me so much: 

Well, of course I do. 

All the time. 

Not as much as I used to. 

Well, how am I going to change if 1 don’t criticize myself? 

Doesn’t everyone? 

To the latter, 1 answer, “We are not talking about everyone, we are 
talking about you. Why do you criticize yourself? What is wrong 

with you?” . , 

As they talk, I make a list. What they say often coincides wit 
their “should list.” They feel they are too tall, too short, too fat, too 
thin, too dumb, too old, too young, too ugly. (The most beauti u 
handsome will often say this.) Or they’re too late, too early, too azy, 
and on and on. Notice how it is almost always too somet mg 



22 




What Is the Problem? 



Finally, we get down to the bottom line, and they say, “I am not good 
enough.” 

Hurrah, hurrah! We have finally found the central issue. They 
criticize themselves because they have learned to believe they “are 
not good enough.” Clients are always amazed at how fast we have 
gotten to this point. Now we do not have to bother with any of the 
side effects like body problems, relationship problems, money prob- 
lems, or lack of creative expressions. We can put all our energy into 
dissolving the cause of the whole thing: “NOT LOVING THE SELF!” 



In tfie infinity of life, where I am, 
all is perfect, whole, and complete. 

I am always Divinely protected and guided. 

It is safe for me to look within myself. 

It is safe for me to look into the past. 

It is safe for me to enlarge my viewpoint of life. 

I am far more than my personality — past, present, or future. 
I now choose to rise above my personality problems 
to recognize the magnificence of my being. 

I am totally willing to learn to love myself. 

All is well in my world. 



23 




Chapter Three 

WHERE DOES IT 
COME FROM? 



“The past has no power over me.” 



All right, we have gone through a lot of stuff, and we have sifted 
through what we thought the problem was. Now we have come up 
with what I believe is the real problem. We feel we are not good 
enough, and there is a lack of self-love. From the way 1 look at life, if 
there is any problem, then this has to be true. So let us look at where 
this belief came from. 

How did we go from being a tiny baby who knows the perfection 
of itself and of life to being a person who has problems and feels 
unworthy and unlovable to one degree or another? People who 
already love themselves can love themselves even more. 

Think of a rose from the time it is a tiny bud. As it opens to full 
flower, till the last petal falls, it is always beautiful, always perfect, 
always changing. So it is with us. We are always perfect, always beauti- 
ful, and ever changing. We are doing the best we can with the under- 
standing, awareness and knowledge we have. As we gain more under- 
standing, awareness and knowledge, then we will do things differendy. 



Mental Housecleaning 

Now is the time to examine our past a bit more, to take a look at 
some of the beliefs that have been running us. 



25 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



Some people find this part of the cleansing process very painful 
but it need not be. We must look at what is there before we can clean 
it out. 

If you want to clean a room thoroughly, you will pick up and 
examine everything in it. Some things you will look at with love, and 
you will dust them or polish them to give them new beauty. Some 
things you will see that need refinishing or repair, and you will make 
a note to do that. Some things will never serve you again, and it 
becomes time to let those things go. Old magazines and newspapers 
and dirty paper plates can be dropped into the wastebasket very 
calmly. There is no need to get angry in order to clean a room. 

It is the same thing when we are cleaning our mental house. There 
is no need to get angry just because some of the beliefs in it are ready 
to be tossed out. Let them go as easily as you would scrape bits of 
food into the trash after a meal. Would you really dig into yesterday’s 
garbage to make tonight’s meal? Do you dig into old mental garbage 
to create tomorrow’s experiences? 

If a thought or belief does not serve you, let it go! There is no 
written law that says that because you once believed something, you 
have to continue to believe it forever. 

Let’s look at some limiting beliefs and where they came from: 

limiting belief: “I’m not good enough.” 

where it came from: A father who repeatedly told him he was 
stupid. 

He said he wanted to be a success so his daddy would be proud o 
him. But he was riddled with guilt, which created resentment, and 
all he could produce was one failure after another. Daddy kept 
financing businesses for him, and one after another, they failed. He 
used failure to get even. He made his daddy pay and pay and pay. 
course, he was the biggest loser. 

limiting belief: Lack of self-love. 

WHERE it CAME from: Trying to win daddy’s approval. 

The last thing she wanted was to be like her father. They cou 
agree on anything and were always arguing. She only wante 



26 




Where Does It Come From? 



approval, but instead all she got was criticism. Her body was full of 
pains. Her father had exactly the same kind of pains. She did not 
realize her anger was creating her pains just as her father’s anger was 
creating pain for him. 

limiting belief: Life is dangerous. 

where it came from: A frightened father. 

Another client saw life as grim and harsh. It was difficult for her 
to laugh, and when she did, she would become frightened that some- 
thing “bad” would happen. She has been reared with the admoni- 
tion, “Don’t laugh or ‘they’ might get you.” 

limiting belief: I’m not good enough. 

where it came from: Being abandoned and ignored. 

It was difficult for him to talk. Silence had become a way of life for 
him. He had just come off drugs and alcohol and was convinced that 
he was terrible. I discovered his mother had died when he was very 
young, and he had been reared by an aunt. The aunt seldom spoke 
except to give an order, and he was brought up in silence. He even ate 
alone in silence and stayed quietly in his room day after day. He had 
a lover who was also a silent man, and they spent most of their time 
alone in silence. The lover died, and once again he was alone. 

Exercise: Negative Messages 

The next exercise we do is to get a large sheet of 
paper and make a list of all the things your parents said 
were wrong with you. What were the negative messages 
you heard? Give yourself enough time to remember as 
many as you can. A half hour usually works well. 

What did they say about money? What did they say 
about your body? What did they say about love and 
relationships? What did they say about your creative 
talents? What were the limiting or negative things they 
said to you? 

If you can, just look objectively at these items and say 
to yourself, “So that’s where that belief came from.” 



27 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



Now, let’s take a new sheet of paper and dig a little deep- 
er. What other negative messages did you hear as a child? 

From relatives 

From teachers 

From friends 

From authority figures 

From your church 

Write them all down. Take your time. Be aware of 
what feelings are going on in your body. 

What you have on these two pieces of paper are the 
thoughts that need to be removed from your conscious- 
ness. These are the very beliefs you have that are mak- 
ing you feel “not good enough.” 



Seeing Yourself as a Child 

If we were to take a three-year-old child and put him in the mid- 
dle of the room, and you and I were to start yelling at the child, 
telling him how stupid he was, how he could never do anything 
right, how he should do this, and shouldn’t do that, and look at the 
mess he made; and maybe hit him a few times, we would end up 
with a frightened little child who sits docilely in the corner, or who 
tears up the place. The child will go one of these two ways, but we 
will never know the potential of that child. 

If we take the same little child and tell him how much we love 
him, how much we care, that we love the way he looks and love how 
bright and clever he is, that we love the way he does things, and that 
it’s okay for him to make mistakes as he learns — and that we wi 
always be there for him no matter what — then the potential t at 
comes out of that child will blow your mind! 

Each one of us has a three-year-old child within us, and we o ten 
spend most of our time yelling at that kid in ourselves. Then we 

wonder why our lives don’t work. 

If you had a friend who was always criticizing you, would you vra 
to be around that person? Perhaps you were treated this way as a c 



28 




Where Does It Come From? 



and that is sad. However, that was a long time ago, and if you are now 
choosing to treat yourself in the same way, then it is sadder still. 

So now, here in front of us, we have a list of the negative messages 
we heard as a child. How does this list correspond with what you 
believe to be wrong with you? Are they almost the same? Probably yes. 

We base our life script on our early messages. We are all good lit- 
tle children and obediently accept what “they” tell us as truth. It 
would be very easy just to blame our parents and be victims for the 
rest of our lives. But that wouldn’t be much fun, and it certainly 
wouldn’t get us out of our stuck position. 



Blaming Your Family 

Blame is one of the surest ways to stay in a problem. In blaming 
another, we give away our power. Understanding enables us to rise 
above the issue and take control of our future. 

The past cannot be changed. The future is shaped by our current 
thinking. It is imperative for our freedom to understand that our 
parents were doing the best they could with the understanding, 
awareness, and knowledge they had. Whenever we blame someone 
else, we are not taking responsibility for ourselves. 

Those people who did all those terrible things to us were just as 
frightened and scared as you are. They felt just the same helplessness 
as you do. The only things they could possibly teach you are what 
they had been taught. 

How much do you know about your parents’ childhoods, espe- 
cially before the age of ten? If it’s still possible for you to find out, 
ask them. If you’re able to find out about your parents’ childhoods, 
you will more easily understand why they did what they did. Under- 
standing will bring you compassion. 

If you don’t know and can’t find out, try to imagine what it must 
have been like for them. What kind of childhood would create an 
adult like that? 

You need this knowledge for your own freedom. You can’t free your- 
self until you free them. You can’t forgive yourself until you forgive 



29 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



them. If you demand perfection from them, you will demand per 
fection from yourself, and you will be miserable all your life. 



Choosing Our Parents 

I agree with the theory that we choose our parents. The lessons 
that we learn seem perfectly matched to the “weaknesses” of the par- 
ents we have. 

I believe we are all on an endless journey through eternity. We 
come to this planet to learn particular lessons that are necessary for 
our spiritual evolution. We choose our sex, our color, our country; 
and then we look around for the perfect set of parents who will “mir- 
ror” our patterns. 

Our visits to this planet are like going to school. If you want to 
become a beautician, you go to beauty school. If you want to become 
a mechanic, you go to mechanics school. If you want to become a 
lawyer, you to go law school. The parents you picked this time 
around are the perfect couple who are “experts” in what you have 
chosen to learn. 

When we grow up, we have a tendency to point our fingers accus- 
ingly at our parents and say, “You did it to me! ’ But I believe we 
chose them. 



Listening to Others 

Our older brothers and sisters are gods to us when we are little. If 
they were unhappy, they probably took it out on us physically or ver 
bally. They might have said things like: 

“I’ll tell on you for. ..” (instilling guilt) 

“You’re just a baby, you can’t do that.” 

“You’re too stupid to play with us.” 

Teachers at school often influence us greatly. In the fifth gra > 
teacher told me emphatically 1 was too tall to be a dancer. I e ie 



30 




Where Does It Come From? 



her and put away my dancing ambitions until 1 was too old to make 
dancing a career. 

Did you understand that tests and grades were only to see how 
much knowledge you had at a given time, or were you a child who 
allowed tests and grades to measure self-worth? 

Our early friends share their own misinformation about life with 
us. The other kids at school can tease us and leave lasting hurts. 
When I was a child, my last name was Lunney and the kids used to 
call me “lunatic.” 

Neighbors also have an influence, not only because of their 
remarks but also because we’re asked, “What will the neighbors 
think?” 

Think back to the other authority figures who were influential in 
your childhood. 

And, of course, there are the strong and very persuasive state- 
ments made by advertisements in periodicals and on television. All 
too many products are sold by making us feel we are unworthy or 
wrong if we don’t use them. 



* * * 



We are all here to transcend our early limitations, whatever they 
were. We’re here to recognize our own magnificence and divinity no 
matter what they told us. You have your negative beliefs to overcome, 
and I have my negative beliefs to overcome. 



31 





In the inanity of life where I am , 
ail is perfect, whole, and complete. 

The past has no power over me 
because I am willing to leant and to change. 

I seethe past os necessary to bring me to where I am today. 
I am willing to begin where I am right now 
to clean the rooms of my mental house. 

I know it does not matter wfiere I start, 
so I now 6egin witfi tfte smallest and the easiest rooms, 
and in that way I will see results quickly. 

I am thrilled to be in the middle of this adventure, 
for 1 know I will never go through 
this particular experience again. 

I am willing to set myself free. 

A ll is well in my world. 





Chapter Four 

IS IT TRUE? 



“Truth is the unchangeable part of me.” 



The question, “Is it true or real?” has two answers: “Yes” and 
“No.” It is true if you believe it to be true. It is not true if you believe 
it isn’t true. The glass is both half full and half empty, depending on 
how you look at it. There are literally billions of thoughts we can 
choose to think. 

Most of us choose to think the same kinds of thoughts our par- 
ents used to think, but we don’t have to continue to do this. There is 
no law written that says we can only think in one way. 

Whatever I choose to believe becomes true for me. Whatever you 
choose to believe becomes true for you. Our thoughts can be totally 
different. Our lives and experiences are totally different. 



Examine Your Thoughts 

Whatever we believe becomes true for us. If you have a sudden finan- 
cial disaster, then on some level you may believe you are unworthy of 
being comfortable with money, or you believe in burdens and debt. 
Or if you believe that nothing good ever lasts, maybe you believe that 
life is out to get you, or, as I hear so often, “I just can’t win.” 

If you seem unable to attract a relationship, you may believe 
“Nobody loves me,” or “I am unlovable.” Perhaps you fear being dom- 
inated as your mother was, or maybe you think, “People just hurt me.” 



33 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



If you have poor health, you may believe, “Illness runs in our fam- 
ily.” Or that you are a victim of the weather. Or perhaps it’s: “I was 
bom to suffer,” or “It’s just one thing after another.” 

Or you may have a different belief. Perhaps you’re not even aware 
of your belief. Most people really aren’t. They just see the outer cir- 
cumstances as being the way the cookie crumbles. Until someone 
can show you the connection between the outer experiences and the 
inner thoughts, you remain a victim in life. 



PROBLEM 

Financial disaster 



No friends 



BELIEF 

I am not worthy of having 
money. 

Nobody loves me. 



Problems with work 



I’m not good enough. 



Always pleasing others I never get my way. 

Whatever the problem is, it comes from a thought pattern, and 
thought patterns can be changed! 

It may feel true, it may seem true — all these problems were 
wrestling with and juggling in our lives. However, no matter how 
difficult an issue we are dealing with, it is only an outer result or the 
effect of an inner thought pattern. 

If you don’t know what thoughts are creating your problems, 
you’re in the right place now, because this book is designed to help 
you find out. Look at the problems in your life. Ask yourself, What 
kinds of thoughts am I having that create this?" 

If you allow yourself to sit quietly and ask this question, your 
inner intelligence will show you the answer. 



It’s Only a Belief You Learned as a Child 

Some of the things we believe are positive and nourishing^ These 
thoughts serve us well all of our lives, such as. Look bot w y 
before you cross the street.” 



34 




Is It True? 



Other thoughts are very useful at the beginning, but as we grow 
older they are no longer appropriate. “Don’t trust strangers” may be 
good advice for a small child, but for an adult, to continue this belief 
will only create isolation and loneliness. 

Why do we so seldom sit down and ask ourselves, “Is that really 
true?” For instance, why do I believe things like, “It’s difficult for me 
to learn”? 

Better questions to ask are: “Is it true for me now?” “Where did 
that belief come from?” “Do I still believe it because a first grade 
teacher told me that over and over?” “Would I be better off if I 
dropped that belief?” 

Beliefs that “Boys don’t cry,” and “Girls don’t climb trees,” create 
men who hide their feelings and women who are afraid to be physical. 

If we were taught as a child that the world is a frightening place, 
then everything we hear that fits that belief we will accept as true for 
us. The same is true for “Don’t trust strangers,” “Don’t go out at 
night,” or “People cheat you.” 

On the other hand, if we were taught early in life that the world 
is a safe place, then we would hold other beliefs. We could easily 
accept that love is everywhere, and people are so friendly, and I 
always have whatever I need. 

If you were taught as a child that, “It’s all my fault,” then you will 
walk around always feeling guilt no matter what happens. Your 
belief will turn you into someone who’s always saying, “I’m sorry.” 

If you learned to believe as a child, “I don’t count,” then this belief 
will always keep you at the end of the line wherever you are. Like my 
childhood experience about not getting any cake (see My Story, 
Chapter 16). Sometimes you will feel you’re invisible when others 
fail to notice you. 

Did your childhood circumstances teach you to believe, “Nobody 
loves me”? Then you are sure to be lonely. Even when you bring a 
friend or relationship into your life, it will be short-lived. 

Did your family teach you, “There is not enough”? Then I am sure 
you often feel as though the cupboard is bare, or you find you just 
get by or are always in debt. 



35 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



I had a client who had been brought up in a household where they 
believed everything was wrong and could only get worse. His main 
joy in life was playing tennis, and then he hurt his knee. He went to 
every doctor he could find, and it only got worse. Finally, he could 
not play at all. 

Another person had been brought up as a preacher’s son, and as a 
child he was taught that everybody else came first. The preacher’s 
family always came last. Today he is wonderful at helping his clients 
get the best deal, yet he’s usually in debt, with little pocket money. 
His belief still makes him last in line. 



If You Believe It, It Seems True 

How often have we said, “That’s the way 1 am,” or “That’s the way 
it is”? Those specific words are really saying that that’s what we 
believe to be true for us. Usually, what we believe is only someone 
else’s opinion we have incorporated into our belief systems. No 
doubt it fits right in with all the other things we believe. 

Are you one of the many people who will get up in the morning, 
see that it’s raining, and say, “Oh, what a lousy day!”? 

It is not a lousy day. It is only a wet day. If we wear the appropri- 
ate clothing and change our attitude, we can have a lot of rainy day 
fun. If it is really our belief that rainy days are lousy days, then we 
will always greet rain with a sinking heart. We will fight the day 
rather than flow with what is happening in the moment. 

If we want a joyous life, we must think joyous thoughts. If we 
want a prosperous life, we must think prosperous thoughts. If we 
want a loving life, we must think loving thoughts. Whatever we sen 
out mentally or verbally will come back to us in like form. 



Each Moment Is a New Beginning 

1 repeat, The Point of Power is always in the present moment. You are 
never stuck. This is where the changes take place, right 
right now in our own minds! It doesn’t matter how long we ve 



36 




Is It True? 



negative pattern or an illness or a poor relationship or lack of 
finances or self-hatred. We can begin to make a shift today! 

Your problem no longer needs to be the truth for you. It can now 
fade back to the nothingness from whence it came. You can do it. 

Remember: you are the only person who thinks in your mind! You 
are the power and authority in your world! 

Your thoughts and beliefs of the past have created this moment, 
and all the moments up to this moment. What you are now choos- 
ing to believe and think and say will create the next moment and the 
next day and the next month and the next year. 

Yes, you, darling! I can give you the most marvelous advice, com- 
ing from my years of experience, yet you can continue to choose to 
think the same old thoughts, you can refuse to change and keep all 
your problems. 

You are the power in your world! You get to have whatever you choose 
to think! 

This moment begins the new process. Each moment is a new 
beginning, and this moment is a new beginning for you right here 
and right now! Isn’t that great to know! This moment is the Point of 
Power! This moment is where the change begins! 



Is It True? 

Stop for a moment and catch your thought. What are you think- 
ing right now? If it is true that your thoughts shape your life, would 
you want what you were just thinking right now to become true for 
you? If it’s a thought of worry or anger or hurt or revenge or fear, 
how do you think this thought will come back to you? 

It is not always easy to catch our thoughts because they move so 
swiftly. However, we can begin right now to watch and listen to what 
we say. If you hear yourself expressing negative words of any sort, 
stop in mid-sentence. Either rephrase the sentence or just drop it. 
You could even say to it, “Out!” 

Imagine yourself in line at a cafeteria, or perhaps at a buffet in a 
luxurious hotel, where instead of dishes of food, there are dishes of 



37 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



thoughts. You get to choose any and all the thoughts you wish 
These thoughts will create your future experiences. 

Now, if you choose thoughts that will create problems and pain 
that’s rather foolish. It’s like choosing food that always makes you ill 
We may do this once or twice, but as soon as we learn which foods 
upset our bodies, we stay away from them. It’s the same with 
thoughts. Let us stay away from thoughts that create problems and pain. 

One of my early teachers, Dr. Raymond Charles Barker, would 
repeatedly say, “When there is a problem, there is not something to 
do, there is something to know.” 

Our minds create our future. When we have something in our 
present that is undesirable, then we must use our minds to change 
the situation. And we can begin to change it this very second. 

It is my deep desire that the topic “How Your Thoughts Work” 
would be the very first subject taught in school. I have never under- 
stood the importance of having children memorize battle dates. It 
seems like such a waste of mental energy. Instead, we could teach 
them important subjects such as How the Mind Works, How to 
Handle Finances, How to Invest Money for Financial Security, How 
to Be a Parent, How to Create Good Relationships, and How to 
Create and Maintain Self-Esteem and Self-Worth. 

Can you imagine what a whole generation of adults would be like 
if they had been taught these subjects in school along with their reg- 
ular curriculum? Think how these truths would manifest. We would 
have happy people who feel good about themselves. We would have 
people who are comfortable financially and who enrich the economy 
by investing their money wisely. They would have good relationships 
with everyone and would be comfortable with the role of parenthood 
and then go on to create another generation of children who feel 
good about themselves. Yet within all this, each person would 
remain an individual expressing his or her own creativity. 

There is no time to waste. Let’s continue with our work. 



38 





In the inanity of fife where I am, 
ad is perfect, whole, and complete. 

I no longer choose to believe in old limitations and lack. 

1 now choose to begin to see myselj f 
as the Universe sees me — perfect, whole, and complete. 
The truth of my Being is that I was created 
perfect , whole, and complete. 

I will always be perfect, whole, and complete. 

I now cfioose to live my life from this understanding. 

I am in the right place at the right time, doing the right thing. 
All is well in my world. 





Chapter Five 

WHAT DO WE 
DO NOW? 



“I see my patterns, and I choose to make changes.” 



Decide to Change 

Throwing up our hands in horror at what we may call the mess of 
our lives and just giving up are the ways many people react at this 
point. Others get angry at themselves or at life and also give up. 

By giving up, I mean deciding, “It’s all hopeless and impossible to 
make any changes, so why try?” The rest of it goes, “Just stay the way 
you are. At least you know how to handle that pain. You don’t like 
it, but it is familiar, and you hope it won’t get any worse.” 

To me, habitual anger is like sitting in a comer with a dunce cap 
on. Does this sound familiar? Something happens, and you get 
angry. Something else happens, and you get angry again. Something 
else happens, and you get angry again. Something else happens, and 
once again you get angry. But you never go beyond getting angry. 

What good does that do? It’s a foolish reaction to waste your time 
only getting angry. It’s also a refusal to perceive life in a new and 
different way. 

It would be much more helpful to ask yourself how you are cre- 
ating so many situations to get angry at. 

What are you believing that causes all these frustrations? What 
are you giving out that attracts in others the need to irritate you? 
Why do you believe that to get your way you need to get angry? 



41 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



Whatever you give out comes back to you. The more you give out 
anger, the more you are creating situations for you to get angry at 
like sitting in a corner with a dunce cap on, getting nowhere. 

Does this paragraph bring up feelings of anger? Good! It must be 
hitting home. This is something you could be willing to change 



Make a Decision to Be “Willing to Change”! 

If you really want to know how stubborn you are, just approach 
the idea of being willing to change. We all want to have our lives 
change, to have situations become better and easier, but we don’t 
want to have to change. We would prefer that they change. In order 
to have this happen, we must change inside. We must change our way 
of thinking, change our way of speaking, change our way of express- 
ing ourselves. Only then will the outer changes occur. 

This is the next step. We are now fairly clear on what the problems 
are, and where they came from. Now it is time to be willing to change. 

I have always had a streak of stubbornness within me. Even now 
sometimes when I decide to make a change in my life, this stub- 
bornness can come to the surface, and my resistance to changing my 
thinking is strong. 1 can temporarily become self-righteous, angry, 
and withdrawn. 

Yes, this still goes on within me after all these years of work. It’s 
one of my lessons. However, when this happens now, I know I’m hit- 
ting an important point of change. Every time I decide to make a 
change in my life, to release something else, I’m going ever deeper 
into myself to do this. 

Each old layer must give way in order to be replaced with new 
thinking. Some of it is easy, and some of it is like trying to lift a boul- 
der with a feather. 

The more te naciously I hold on to an old belief when I say I want 
to make a change, the more 1 know this is an important one for me 
to release. It is only by learning these things that I can teach others. 

It is my opinion that many really good teachers do not come from 
joyful households where all was easy. They come from a place o 



42 




What Do We Do Now? 



much pain and suffering, and they’ve worked through the layers to 
reach the place where they can now help others to become free. Most 
good teachers are continually working to release even more, to 
remove ever-deeper layers of limitation. This becomes a lifetime 
occupation. 

The main difference between the way I used to work at releasing 
beliefs, and the way I do it today, is that now 1 don’t have to be angry 
at myself in order to do so. 1 no longer choose to believe that I’m a 
bad person just because I find something else to change within me. 



Housecleaning 

The mental work I do now is like cleaning a house. I go through 
my mental rooms and examine the thoughts and beliefs in them. 
Some I love, so I polish and shine them and make them even more 
useful. Some I notice need replacement or repair, and 1 get around to 
them as I can. Some are like yesterday’s newspapers and old maga- 
zines or clothing that’s no longer suitable. These I either give away 
or toss into the trash, and I let them be gone forever. 

It’s not necessary for me to be angry or to feel I’m a bad person in 
order to do this. 

Exercise: I Am Willing to Change 

Let’s use the affirmation, “I am willing to change.” 

Repeat this often. “I am willing to change. I am willing 
to change.” You can touch your throat as you say this. 

The throat is the energy center in the body where 
change takes place. By touching your throat, you are 
acknowledging you are in the process of changing. 

Be willing to allow the changes to happen when they 
come up in your life. Be aware that where you DO NOT 
WANT TO CHANGE is exactly the area where you 
NEED to change the most. “I am willing to change.” 

The Universal Intelligence is always responding to 
your thoughts and words. Things will definitely begin 
to change as you make these statements. 



43 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



Many Ways to Change 

Working with my ideas is not the only way to change. There are 
many other methods that work quite well. In the back of the book 
I have included a list of many of the ways you could approach your 
own growth process. 

Just think of a few now. There is the spiritual approach, there is 
the mental approach, and the physical approach. Holistic healing 
includes body, mind, and spirit. You can begin in any one of these 
areas as long as you eventually include all the areas. Some begin with 
the mental approach and do workshops or therapy. Some begin in 
the spiritual area with meditation or prayer. 

When you begin to clean your house, it really doesn’t matter which 
room you start in. Just begin in the area that appeals to you most. 
The others will happen almost by themselves. 

Junk food eaters who begin on the spiritual level often find that 
they are drawn to nutrition. They meet a friend or find a book or go 
to a class that brings them to an understanding that what they put 
into their bodies will have a lot to do with how they feel and look. 
One level will always lead to another as long as there is the willing- 
ness to grow and change. 

I give very little nutritional advice because I have discovered that 
all systems work for some people. 1 do have a local network of good 
practitioners in the holistic field, and 1 refer clients to them when 1 
see the necessity for nutritional knowledge. This is an area where 
you must find your own way or go to a specialist who can test you. 

Many of the books on nutrition have been written by persons who 
were very ill and worked out a system for their own healing. Then 
they wrote a book to tell everyone else the methods they used. 
However, everyone is not alike. 

For instance, the macrobiotic and the natural raw food diets are 
two totally different approaches. The raw food people never coo 
anything, seldom eat bread or grains, and are very careful not to >ea^ 
fruits and vegetables at the same meal. And they never use sa t. 
macrobiotic people cook almost all of their food, have a different sy 
tern of food combining, and use a lot of salt. Both systems wo 



44 




What Do We Do Now? 



Both systems have healed bodies. But neither system is good for 
everybody’s body. 

My personal nutritional approach is simple. If it grows, eat it. If it 
doesn’t grow, don’t eat it. 

Be conscious of your eating. It’s like paying attention to our 
thoughts. We also can learn to pay attention to our bodies and the 
signals we get when we eat in different ways. 

Cleaning the mental house after a lifetime of indulging in negative 
mental thoughts is a bit like going on a good nutritional program 
after a lifetime of indulging in junk foods. They both can often cre- 
ate healing crises. As you begin to change your physical diet, the 
body begins to throw off the accumulation of toxic residue, and as 
this happens, you can feel rather rotten for a day or two. So it is 
when you make a decision to change the mental thought patterns — 
your circumstances can begin to seem worse for a while. 

Recall for a moment the end of a Thanksgiving dinner. The food 
is eaten, and it’s time to clean the turkey pan. The pan is all burnt 
and crusty, so you put in hot water and soap and let it soak for a 
while. Then you begin to scrape the pan. Now you really have a 
mess; it looks worse than ever. But, if you just keep scrubbing away, 
soon you will have a pan as good as new. 

It’s the same thing with cleaning up a dried-on crusty mental pat- 
tern. When we soak it with new ideas, all the gook comes to the sur- 
face to look at. Just keep doing the new affirmations, and soon you 
will have totally cleared an old limitation. 

Exercise: Willing to Change 

So we have decided we are willing to change, and we will 
use any and all methods that work for us. Let me describe 
one of the methods I use with myself and with others. 

First: go look in a mirror and say to yourself, “I am 
willing to change.” 

Notice how you feel. If you are hesitant or resistant 
or just don’t want to change, ask yourself why. What old 
belief are you holding on to? Please don’t scold yourself, 



45 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



just notice what it is. I’ll bet that belief has been causing 
you a lot of trouble. I wonder where it came from. Do 
you know? 

Whether we know where it came from or not, let’s do 
something to dissolve it, now. Again, go to the mirror, 
and look deep into your own eyes, touch your throat, 
and say out loud ten times, “I am willing to release all 
resistance.” 

Mirror work is very powerful. As children we received most of our 
negative messages from others looking us straight in the eye and per- 
haps shaking a finger at us. Whenever we look into the mirror today, 
most of us will say something negative to ourselves. We either criti- 
cize our looks or berate ourselves for something. To look yourself 
straight in the eye and make a positive declaration about yourself is, 
in my opinion, the quickest way to get results with affirmations. 



46 




In the infinity of life where I am, 
ad is perfect, whole, and complete. 

I now choose calmly and objectively to see my old patterns, 
and I am willing to make changes. 

I am teachable. I can (earn. I am willing to change. 

1 choose to have jun doing this. 

I choose to react as though I have found a treasure 
when I discover something else to release. 

I see and feel myself changing moment by moment. 

Thoughts no longer have any power over me. 

I am the power in the world. I choose to be free. 

All is welT in my world. 




Chapter Six 

RESISTANCE TO 
CHANGE 



“I am in the rhythm and flow of ever-changing life.” 



Awareness Is the First Step in Healing or Changing 

When we have some pattern buried deeply within us, we must 
become aware of it in order to heal the condition. Perhaps we begin 
to mention the condition, to complain about it or to see it in other 
people. It rises to the surface of our attention in some way, and we 
begin to relate to it. We often attract a teacher, a friend, a class or 
workshop, or a book to ourselves that begins to awaken new ways to 
approach the dissolving of the problem. 

My awakening began with a chance remark of a friend who had 
been told about a meeting. My friend did not go, but something 
within me responded, and I went. That little meeting was the first 
step on my pathway of unfoldment. I didn’t recognize the signifi- 
cance of it until sometime later. 

Often, our reaction to this first stage is to think the approach is silly, 
or that it doesn’t make sense. Perhaps it seems too easy, or unaccept- 
able to our thinking. We don’t want to do it. Our resistance comes up 
very strong. We may even feel angry about the thought of doing it. 

Such a reaction is very good, if we can understand that it is the 
first step in our healing process. 

I tell people that any reaction they may feel is there to show them 
they are already in the process of healing even though the total heal- 



49 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



ing is not yet completed. The truth is that the process begins the 
moment we begin to think about making a change. 

Impatience is only another form of resistance. It is resistance to 
learning and to changing. When we demand that it be done right 
now, completed at once, then we don’t give ourselves time to learn 
the lesson involved with the problem we have created. 

If you want to move to another room, you have to get up and 
move step by step in that direction. Just sitting in your chair and 
demanding that you be in the other room will not work. It’s the same 
thing. We all want our problem to be over with, but we don’t want 
to do the small things that will add up to the solution. 

Now is the time to acknowledge our responsibility in having cre- 
ated the situation or condition. I’m not talking about having guilt, 
nor about being a “bad person” for being where you are. I am saying 
to acknowledge the “power within you” that transforms our every 
thought into experience. In the past we unknowingly used this 
power to create things we did not want to experience. We were not 
aware of what we were doing. Now, by acknowledging our responsi- 
bility, we become aware and learn to use this power consciously in 
positive ways for our benefit. 

Often when I suggest a solution to the client — a new way to 
approach a matter or forgiving the person involved — I will see the 
jaw begin to clench and jut out, and arms cross tightly over the 
chest. Maybe even fists will form. Resistance is coming to the fore, 
and I know we have hit upon exactly what needs to be done. 

We all have lessons to learn. The things that are so difficult for us 
are only the lessons we have chosen for ourselves. If things are easy 
for us, then they are not lessons, but are things we already know. 



Lessons Can Be Learned Through Awareness 

If you think of the hardest thing for you to do and how much you 
resist it, then you’re looking at your greatest lesson at the moment. 
Surrendering, giving up the resistance, and allowing yourself to earn 
what you need to learn, will make the next step even easier. Don t 



50 




Resistance to Change 



your resistance stop you from making the changes. We can work on 
two levels: 1) Looking at the resistance, and 2) Still making the men- 
tal changes. Observe yourself, watch how you resist, and then go 
ahead anyway. 



Nonverbal Clues 

Our actions often show our resistance. For instance: 

Changing the subject 
Leaving the room 
Going to the bathroom 
Being late 
Getting sick 
Procrastinating by: 
doing something else 
doing busy work 
wasting time 

Looking away, or out the window 

Flipping through a magazine 

Refusing to pay attention 

Eating, drinking, or smoking 

Creating or ending a relationship 

Creating breakdowns; cars, appliances, plumbing, etc. 



Assumptions 

We often assume things about others to justify our resistance. 
We make statements such as: 

It wouldn’t do any good anyway. 

My husband/wife won’t understand. 

I would have to change my whole personality. 

Only crazy people go to therapists. 

They couldn’t help me with my problem. 

They couldn’t handle my anger. 



51 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



My case is different. 

I don’t want to bother them. 
It will work itself out. 
Nobody else does it. 



Beliefs 

We grow up with beliefs that become our resistance to changing. 
Some of our limiting ideas are: 

It’s not done. 

It’s just not right. 

It’s not right for me to do that. 

That wouldn’t be spiritual. 

Spiritual people don’t get angry. 

Men/women just don’t do that. 

My family never did that. 

Love is not for me. 

It’s too far to drive. 

It’s too much work. 

It’s too expensive. 

It will take too long. 

I don’t believe in it. 

I’m not that kind of person. 



Them 

We give our power to others and use that excuse as our resistance 
to changing. We have ideas like: 

God doesn’t approve. 

I’m waiting for the stars to say it’s okay. 

This isn’t the right environment. 

They won’t let me change. 

I don’t have the right teacher/book/class/tools. 



52 




Resistance to Change 



My doctor doesn’t want me to. 

I can’t get time off work. 

I don’t want to be under their spell. 

It’s all their fault. 

They have to change first. 

As soon as I get , I’ll do it. 

You/they don’t understand. 

1 don’t want to hurt them. 

It’s against my upbringing, religion, philosophy. 



Self Concepts 

We have ideas about ourselves that we use as limitations or resist- 
ance to changing. We are: 

Too old. 

Too young. 

Too fat. 

Too thin. 

Too short. 

Too tall. 

Too lazy. 

Too strong. 

Too weak. 

Too dumb. 

Too smart. 

Too poor. 

Too worthless. 

Too frivolous. 

Too serious. 

Too stuck. 

Maybe it’s just all too much. 



53 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



Delaying Tactics 

Our resistance often expresses itself as delaying tactics. We use 
excuses like: 

I’ll do it later. 

I can’t think right now. 

I don’t have the time right now. 

It would take too much time away from my work. 

Yes, that’s a good idea; I’ll do it some other time. 

1 have too many other things to do. 

I’ll think about it tomorrow. 

As soon as I get through with . 

As soon as I get back from this trip. 

The time isn’t right. 

It’s too late, or too soon. 



Denial 

This form of resistance shows up in denial of the need to do any 
changing. Things like: 

There is nothing wrong with me. 

I can’t do anything about this problem. 

I was all right last time. 

What good would it do to change? 

If I ignore it, maybe the problem will go away. 



Fear 

By far the biggest category of resistance is fear fear of the 
unknown. Listen to these: 

I’m not ready yet. 

I might fail. 

They might reject me. 

What would the neighbors think? 



54 




Resistance to Change 



I’m afraid to tell my husband/wife. 

I might get hurt. 

1 may have to change. 

It might cost me money. 

I would rather die first, or get a divorce first. 

I don’t want anyone to know I have a problem. 

I’m afraid to express my feelings. 

I don’t want to talk about it. 

I don’t have the energy. 

Who knows where I might end up? 

I may lose my freedom. 

It’s too hard to do. 

I don’t have enough money now. 

I might hurt my back. 

I wouldn’t be perfect. 

I might lose my friends. 

I don’t trust anyone. 

It might hurt my image. 

I’m not good enough. 

And on and on the list goes. Do you recognize some of these as 
the ways you resist? Look for the resistance in these examples: 

A client came to me because she was in a lot of pain. She had bro- 
ken her back, her neck, and her knee in three separate auto acci- 
dents. Yet she was late, got lost, and then was stuck in traffic. 

It was easy for her to tell me all her problems, but the minute I 
said, “Let me talk for a moment,” all sorts of turmoil began. Her con- 
tact lenses began to bother her. She wanted to sit in another chair. 
She had to go to the bathroom. Then her lenses had to come out. I 
could not keep her attention for the rest of the session. 

It was all resistance. She wasn’t ready to let go and be healed. I dis- 
covered her sister also had broken her back twice, and so had her 
mother. 

Another client was an actor, a mime, a street performer, and quite 
good at it. He bragged about how clever he was at cheating others, 



55 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



especially institutions. He knew how to get away with almost any- 
thing, and yet he got away with nothing. He was always broke at 
least a month behind in the rent, often without a telephone. His 
clothes were tacky, work was very sporadic, he had lot of pains in his 
body, and his love life was zilch. 

His theory was that he couldn’t stop cheating until some good 
came into his life. Of course, with what he was giving out, no good 
could come into his life. He had to stop cheating first. 

His resistance was that he was not ready to let go of the old ways. 



Leave Your Friends Alone 

Too often instead of working on our own changes, we decide 
which of our friends needs to change. This, too, is resistance. 

In the early days of my work, I had a client who would send me to 
all her friends in the hospital. Instead of sending them flowers, she 
would have me go to fix up their problems. I would arrive with my tape 
recorder in hand, usually finding someone in bed who didn’t know why 
I was there or understand what I was doing. This was before I learned 
never to work with anyone unless he or she requested it. 

Sometimes clients come to me because a friend has given them a 
session as a present. This usually doesn’t work too well, and they sel- 
dom come back for further work. 

When something works well for us, we often want to share it with 
others. But they may not be ready to make a change at that point in 
time and space. It’s hard enough to make changes when we want to, 
but to try to make someone else change when he or she doesn t want 
to is impossible, and it can ruin a good friendship. I push my clients 
because they come to me. I leave my friends alone. 



Mirror Work 

Mirrors reflect back to us our feelings about ourselves. They show 
us clearly the areas to be changed if we want to have a joyous, 
filling life. 



56 




Resistance to Change 



l ask people to look in their eyes and say something positive about 
themselves every time they pass a mirror. The most powerful way to 
do affirmations is to look in a mirror and say them out loud. You are 
immediately aware of the resistance and can move through it quick- 
er. It’s good to have a mirror with you as you read this book. Use it 
often for affirmations and to check where you are resisting and 
where you are open and flowing. 

Now, look in a mirror and say to yourself, “I am willing to 
change.” 

Notice how you feel. If you are hesitant, resistant, or just don’t 
want to change, ask yourself why. What old belief are you holding 
on to? This is not a time to scold yourself. Just notice what is going 
on and what belief rises to the surface. That is the one that has been 
causing you a lot of trouble. Can you recognize where it came from? 

When we do our affirmations and they don’t feel right or nothing 
seems to happen, it’s so easy to say, “Oh, affirmations don’t work.” 
It’s not that the affirmations don’t work, it’s that we need to do anoth- 
er step before we begin affirmations. 



Repeated Patterns Show Us Our Needs 

For every habit we have, for every experience we go through over 
and over, for every pattern we repeat, there is a NEED WITHIN US 
for it. The need corresponds to some belief we have. If there were not 
a need, we wouldn’t have it, do it, or be it. There is something with- 
in us that needs the fat, the poor relationships, the failures, the cig- 
arettes, the anger, the poverty, the abuse, or whatever there is that’s 
a problem for us. 

How many times have we said, “I won’t ever do that again!”? 
Then, before the day is up, we have the piece of cake, smoke the cig- 
arettes, say hateful things to the ones we love, and so on. Then we 
compound the whole problem by angrily saying to ourselves, “Oh, 
you have no willpower, no discipline. You’re just weak.” This only 
adds to the load of guilt we already carry. 



57 



YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



It Has Nothing to Do with Willpower or Discipline 

Whatever we are trying to release in our lives is just a symptom, 
an outer effect. Trying to eliminate the symptom without working on 
dissolving the cause is useless. The moment we release our will- 
power or discipline, the symptom crops up again. 



Willingness to Release the Need 

I say to clients, “There must be a need in you for this condition, 
or you wouldn’t have it. Let’s go back a step and work on the WILL- 
INGNESS TO RELEASE THE NEED. When the need is gone, you 
will have no desire for the cigarette or the overeating or the negative 
pattern.” 

One of the first affirmations to use is: “I am willing to release the 
NEED for the resistance, or the headache, or the constipation, or the 
excess weight, or the lack of money or whatever.” Say: “I am willing 
to release the need for. . . ” If you are resisting at this point, then your 
other affirmations cannot work. 

The webs we create around ourselves need to be unwound. If you 
have ever untangled a ball of string, you know that yanking and 
pulling only makes it worse. You need to very gently and patiently 
unravel the knots. Be gentle and patient with yourself as you untan- 
gle your own mental knots. Get help if you need it. Above all, love 
yourself in the process. The willingness to let go of the old is the key. 
That is the secret. 

When I say “needing the problem,” 1 mean that according to our 
particular set of thought patterns, we “need” to have certain outer 
effects or experiences. Every outer effect is the natural expression of 
an inner thought pattern. To battle only the outer effect or symptom 
is wasted energy and often increases the problem. 



58 




Resistance to Change 



“I Am Unworthy” Creates Procrastination 

If one of my inner belief systems or thought patterns is, “I am 
unworthy,” then one of my outer effects will probably be procrasti- 
nation. After all, procrastination is one way to keep us from getting 
where we say we want to go. Most people who procrastinate will 
spend a lot of time and energy berating themselves for procrastinat- 
ing. They will call themselves lazy and generally will make them- 
selves out to feel they are “bad persons.” 



Resentment of Another’s Good 

I had a client who loved attention and usually came to class late so 
he could create a stir. He had been the baby of 18 children, and he 
came last on the list of getting. As a child he watched everyone else 
“have” while he just longed for his own. Even now when someone 
had good fortune, he would not rejoice with them. Instead he would 
say, “Oh, I wish I had that,” or “Oh, why don’t I ever get that?” 

His resentment of their good was a barrier to his own growth and 
change. 



Self-Worth Opens Many Doors 

A client who was 79 came to me. She taught singing, and several 
of her students were making television commercials. She wanted to 
do this, too, but was afraid. I supported her totally and explained, 
“There is nobody like you. Just be yourself.” I said, “Do it for the fun 
of it. There are people out there looking for exactly what you have 
to offer. Let them know you exist.” 

She called several agents and casting directors, and said, “I am a 
senior, senior citizen, and I want to do commercials.” In a short time, 
she had a commercial, and since then she’s never stopped working. I 
often see her on TV and in magazines. New careers can start at any 
age, especially when you do it for the fun of it. 



59 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



Self-Criticizing Is Totally Missing the Mark 

It will only intensify the procrastination and laziness. The place to 
put the mental energy is into releasing the old and creating a new 
thought pattern. Say: “I am willing to release the need to he unworthy. 
I am worthy of the very best in life, and 1 now lovingly allow myself to 
accept it. 

“As I spend a few days doing this affirmation over and over, my outer 
effect pattern of procrastination will automatically begin to fade. 

“As I internally create a pattern of self-worth, then I no longer have 
the need to delay my good.” 

Do you see how this could apply to some of the negative patterns 
or outer effects in your life? Let’s stop wasting time and energy put- 
ting ourselves down for something we can’t help doing if we have 
certain inner beliefs. Change the beliefs. 

No matter how you approach it, or what subject matter we are 
talking about, we are only dealing with thoughts, and thoughts can 
be changed. 

When we want to change a condition, we need to say so. 

“I am willing to release the pattern within me that is creating this 
condition.” 

You can say this to yourself over and over every time you think of 
your illness or problem. The minute you say it, you are stepping out 
of the victim class. You are no longer helpless; you are acknowledg- 
ing your own power. You are saying, “I am beginning to understand 
that I created this. I now take my own power back. I am going to 
release this old idea and let it go.” 



Self-Criticism 

I have a client who will eat a pound of butter and everything else 
she can get ahold of when she cannot bear to be with her own neg- 
ative thoughts. The next day she will be angry at her body for being 
heavy. When she was a little girl, she would walk around the family 
dinner table finishing off everyone’s leftovers and eating a whole 



60 




Resistance to Change 



stick of butter. The family would laugh and think it was cute. It was 
almost the only approval she got from her family. 

When you scold yourself, when you berate yourself, when you 
“beat yourself up,” who do you think you’re treating this way? 

Almost all of our programming, both negative and positive, was 
accepted by us by the time we were three years old. Our experiences 
since then are based upon what we accepted and believed about our- 
selves and about life at that time. The way we were treated when we 
were very little is usually the way we treat ourselves now. The per- 
son you are scolding is a three-year-old child within you. 

If you are a person who gets angry at yourself for being afraid and 
fearful, think of yourself as being three years old. If you had a little 
three-year-old child in front of you who was afraid, what would you 
do? Would you be angry at him, or would you reach out your arms 
and comfort the child until he felt safe and at ease? The adults around 
you when you were a child may not have known how to comfort you 
at that time. Now you are the adult in your life, and if you’re not com- 
forting the child within you, then that is very sad indeed. 

What was done in the past is done, and it is over now. But this is 
present time, and you now have the opportunity to treat yourself the 
way you wish to be treated. A frightened child needs comforting, not 
scolding. Scolding yourself only makes you more frightened, and 
there is nowhere to turn. When the child within feels unsafe, it cre- 
ates a lot of trouble. Remember how it felt to be belittled when you 
were young? It feels the same way now to that child within. 

Be kind to yourself. Begin to love and approve of yourself. That’s 
what that little child needs in order to express itself at its highest 
potential. 



61 





In the infinity of lift where I am, 
all is perfect, whole, and complete. 

I see any resistance patterns within me 
only as something else to release. 

They have no power over me. I am the power in my world. 
I flow with the changes taking place in my life as best I can. 
I approve of myself and the way I am changing. 

I am doing the best I can. Each day gets easier. 

I rejoice that I am in the rhythm and flow 
of my ever-changing life. 

Today is a wonderful day. 

I cfioose to make it so. 

All is well in my world 




Chapter Seven 

HOW TO CHANGE 

“I cross bridges with joy and with ease.” 



I love “how to’s.” All the theory in the world is useless unless we 
know how to apply it and make a change. 1 have always been a very 
pragmatic, practical person with a great need to know how to do things. 
The principles we will be working with at this time are: 

Nurturing the willingness to let go, 

Controlling the mind, and 

Learning how forgiveness of self and others releases us. 



Releasing the Need 

Sometimes when we try to release a pattern, the whole situation 
seems to get worse for a while. This is not a bad thing. It is a sign 
that the situation is beginning to move. Our affirmations are work- 
ing, and we need to keep going. 



Examples 

We are working on increasing prosperity, and we lose our wallet. 
We are working on improving our relationships, and we have a 
fight. 

We are working on becoming healthy, and we catch a cold. 



63 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



We are working on expressing our creative talents and abilities, 
and we get fired. 

Sometimes the problem moves in a different direction, and we 
begin to see and understand more. For example, let’s assume you are 
trying to give up smoking and you are saying, “I am willing to release 
the ‘need’ for cigarettes.” As you continue to do this, you notice your 
relationships becoming more uncomfortable. 

Don’t despair, this is a sign of the process working. 

You might ask yourself a series of questions like: “Am 1 willing to 
give up uncomfortable relationships? Were my cigarettes creating a 
smoke screen so I wouldn’t see how uncomfortable these relation- 
ships are? Why am I creating these relationships?” 

You notice the cigarettes are only a symptom and not a cause. Now 
you are developing insight and understanding that will set you free. 

You begin to say, “I am willing to release the ‘need’ for uncom- 
fortable relationships.” 

Then you notice the reason you’re so uncomfortable is that other 
people always seem to be criticizing you. 

Being aware that we always create all of our experiences, you now 
begin to say, “I am willing to release the need to be criticized.” 

You then think about criticism, and you realize that as a child you 
received a lot of criticism. That little kid inside of you only feels “at 
home” when it is being criticized. Your way of hiding from this had 
been to create a “smoke screen.” 

Perhaps you see the next step as affirming, “I am willing to for- 
give...” 

As you continue to do your affirmations, you may find that ciga- 
rettes no longer attract you, and the people in your life no longer 
criticize you. Then you know you have released your need. 

This usually takes a little while to work out. If you are gently per- 
sistent and are willing to give yourself a few quiet moments each day 
to reflect on your process of change, you will get the answers. The 
Intelligence within you is the same Intelligence that created this 
entire planet. Trust your Inner Guidance to reveal to you whatever it 
is you need to know. 



64 




How to Change 



Exercise: Releasing the Need 

In a workshop situation, I would have you do this 
exercise with a partner. However, you can do it equally 
as well using a mirror — a big one, if possible. 

Think for a moment about something in your life you 
want to change. Go to the mirror and look into your 
eyes and say out loud, “I now realize that 1 have created 
this condition, and I am now willing to release the pat- 
tern in my consciousness that is responsible for this 
condition.” Say it several times, with feeling. 

If you were with a partner, I would have your partner 
tell you if he really thought you meant it. I would want 
you to convince your partner. 

Ask yourself if you really mean it. Convince yourself 
in the mirror that this time you are ready to step out of 
the bondage of the past. 

At this point many people get scared because they 
don’t know HOW to do this releasing. They are afraid to 
commit themselves until they know all the answers. It’s 
only more resistance. Just pass through it. 

One of the great things is that we do not have to 
know how. All we need is to be willing. The Universal 
Intelligence or your subconscious mind will figure out 
the hows. Every thought you think and every word you 
speak is being responded to, and the point of power is 
in the moment. The thoughts you are thinking and the 
words you are declaring at this moment are creating 
your future. 



Your Mind Is a Tool 

You are much more than your mind. You may think your mind is 
running the show. But that is only because you have trained your mind 
to think in this way. You can also untrain and retrain this tool of yours. 



65 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



Your mind is a tool for you to use in any way you wish. The way 
you now use your mind is only a habit, and habits, any habits, can 
be changed if we want to do so, or even if we only know it is possi- 
ble to do so. 

Quiet the chatter of your mind for a moment, and really think 
about this concept: YOUR MIND IS A TOOL YOU CAN CHOOSE 
TO USE ANY WAY YOU WISH. 

The thoughts you “choose” to think create the experiences you 
have. If you believe that it is hard or difficult to change a habit or a 
thought, then your choice of this thought will make it true for you. If 
you would choose to think, “It is becoming easier for me to make 
changes,” then your choice of this thought will make that true for you. 



Controlling the Mind 

There is an incredible power and intelligence within you con- 
stantly responding to your thoughts and words. As you learn to con- 
trol your mind by the conscious choice of thoughts, you align your- 
self with this power. 

Do not think your mind is in control. You are in control of your 
mind. You use your mind. You can stop thinking those old thoughts. 

When your old thinking tries to come back and say, “It’s so hard 
to change,” take mental control. Say to your mind, “I now choose to 
believe it is becoming easier for me to make changes.” You may have 
to have this conversation with your mind several times for it to 
acknowledge that you are in control and that what you say goes. 



The Only Thing You Ever Have Any Control of Is Your 
Current Thought 

Your old thoughts are gone; there is nothing you can do about 
them except live out the experiences they caused. Your current 
thought, the one you are thinking right now, is totally under your 
control. 



66 




How to Change 



Example 

If you have a little child who has been allowed to stay up as late 
as he wishes for a long time, and then you make a decision that you 
now want this child to go to bed at 8:00 every night, what do you 
think the first night will be like? 

The child will rebel against this new rule and may kick and 
scream and do his best to stay out of bed. If you relent at this time, 
the child wins and will try to control you forever. 

However, if you calmly stick to your decision and firmly insist 
that this is the new bedtime, the rebellion will lessen. In two or three 
nights, the new routine will be established. 

It is the same thing with your mind. Of course it will rebel at first. 
It does not want to be retrained. But you are in control, and if you 
stay focused and firm, in a very short time the new way of thinking 
will be established. And you will feel so good to realize that you are 
not a helpless victim of your own thoughts, but rather a master of your 
own mind. 

Exercise: Letting Go 

As you read this, take a deep breath and, as you 
exhale, allow all the tension to leave your body. Let your 
scalp and your forehead and your face relax. Your head 
does not need to be tense in order for you to read. Let 
your tongue and your throat and your shoulders relax. 

You can hold a book with relaxed arms and hands. Do 
that now. Let your back and your abdomen and your 
pelvis relax. Let your breathing be at peace as you relax 
your legs and feet. 

Is there a big change in your body since you began 
the previous paragraph? Notice how much you hold on. 

If you are doing it with your body, you are doing it with 
your mind. 

In this relaxed, comfortable position, say to yourself, 

“I am willing to let go. I release. I let go. I release all ten- 



67 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



sion. 1 release all fear. I release all anger. I release all 
guilt. I release all sadness. I let go of all old limitations. 

I let go, and I am at peace. 1 am at peace with myself. 

I am at peace with the process of life. I am safe.” 

Go over this exercise two or three times. Feel the ease of letting go. 
Repeat it whenever you feel thoughts of difficulty coming up. It 
takes a little practice for the routine to become a part of you. When 
you put yourself into this peaceful state first, it becomes easy for 
your affirmations to take hold. You become open and receptive to 
them. There is no need to struggle or stress or strain. Just relax and 
think the appropriate thoughts. Yes, it is this easy. 



Physical Releasing 

Sometimes we need to experience a physical letting go. 
Experiences and emotions can get locked in the body. Screaming in 
the car with all the windows rolled up can be very releasing if we 
have been stifling our verbal expression. Beating the bed or kicking 
pillows is a harmless way to release pent-up anger, as is playing ten- 
nis or running. 

Awhile ago, I had a pain in my shoulder for a day or two. I tried 
to ignore it, but it wouldn’t go away. Finally, I sat down and asked 
myself, “What is happening here? What am I feeling?” 

I realized, “It feels like burning. Burning. . .burning. . . that means 
anger. What are you angry about?” 

I couldn’t think of what I was angry about, so I said, “Well, lets 
see if we can find out.” I put two large pillows on the bed and began 
to hit them with a lot of energy. 

After about twelve hits, I realized exactly what I was angry about. 
It was so clear. So I beat the pillows even harder and made some 
noise and released the emotions from my body. When I got through, 
I felt much better, and the next day my shoulder was fine. 



68 




How to Change 



Letting the Past Hold You Back 

Many people come to me and say they cannot enjoy today because 
of something that happened in the past. Because they did not do some- 
thing or do it in a certain way in the past, they cannot live a full life 
today. Because they no longer have something they had in the past, 
they cannot enjoy today. Because they were hurt in the past, they will 
not accept love now. Because something unpleasant happened when 
they did something once, they are sure it will happen again today. 
Because they once did something that they are sorry for, they are 
sure they are bad people forever. Because once someone did some- 
thing to them, it is now all the other person’s fault that their life is 
not where they want it to be. Because they became angry over a sit- 
uation in the past, they will hold on to that self-righteousness. 
Because of some very old experience where they were treated badly, 
they will never forgive and forget. 

Because I did not get invited to the high school prom, I can- 
not enjoy life today. 

Because I did poorly at my first audition, I will be terrified 
of auditions forever. 

Because 1 am no longer married, I cannot live a full life today. 

Because I was hurt by a remark once, I will never trust any- 
one again. 

Because I stole something once, I must punish myself forever. 

Because 1 was poor as a child, I will never get anywhere. 

What we often refuse to realize is that holding on to the past — 
no matter what it was or how awful it was — is ONLY HURTING 
US. “They” really don’t care. Usually, “they” are not even aware. 
We are only hurting ourselves by refusing to live in this moment 
to the fullest. 

The past is over and done and cannot be changed. This is the only 
moment we can experience. Even when we lament about the past, 
we are experiencing our memory of it in this moment, and losing the 
real experience of this moment in the process. 



69 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



Exercise: Releasing 

Let us now clean up the past in our minds. Release 
the emotional attachment to it. Allow the memories to 
be just memories. 

If you think back to what you used to wear in the 
third grade, usually there is no emotional attachment. 
It’s just a memory. 

It can be the same for all of the past events in our lives. 
As we let go, we become free to use all of our mental 
power to enjoy this moment and to create a great future. 

List all the things you are willing to let go of. How 
willing are you to do this? Notice your reactions. What 
will you have to do to let these things go? How willing 
are you to do so? What is your resistance level? 



Forgiveness 

Next step, forgiveness. Forgiveness of ourselves and of others 
releases us from the past. The Course in Miracles says over and over 
that forgiveness is the answer to almost everything. I know that 
when we are stuck, it usually means there is some more forgiving to 
be done. When we do not flow freely with life in the present 
moment, it usually means we are holding on to a past moment. It can 
be regret, sadness, hurt, fear, or guilt, blame, anger, resentment, and 
sometimes even the desire for revenge. Each one of these states comes 
from a space of unforgiveness, a refusal to let go and come into the pres- 
ent moment. 

Love is always the answer to healing of any sort. And the pathway 
to love is forgiveness. Forgiveness dissolves resentment. There are 
several ways in which I approach this. 

Exercise: Dissolving Resentment 

There is an old Emmet Fox exercise for dissolving 
resentment that always works. He recommends that you 
sit quietly, close your eyes, and allow your mind and 



70 




How to Change 



body to relax. Then, imagine yourself sitting in a dark- 
ened theater, and in front of you is a small stage. On that 
stage, place the person you resent the most. It could be 
someone in the past or present, living or dead. When 
you see this person clearly, visualize good things hap- 
pening to this person — things that would be meaning- 
ful to him. See him smiling and happy. 

Hold this image for a few minutes, then let it fade 
away. I like to add another step. As this person leaves the 
stage, put yourself up there. See good things happening 
to you. See yourself smiling and happy. Be aware that the 
abundance of the Universe is available to all of us. 

The above exercise dissolves the dark clouds of resentment most 
of us carry. For some, it will be very difficult to do. Each time you do 
it, you may get a different person. Do it once a day for a month, and 
notice how much lighter you feel. 

Exercise: Revenge 

Those on the spiritual pathway know the importance 
of forgiveness. For some of us, there is a step that is nec- 
essary before we can totally forgive. Sometimes the lit- 
tle kid in us needs to have revenge before it is free to for- 
give. For that, this exercise is very helpful. 

Close your eyes, sit quietly and peacefully. Think of 
the people who are hardest to forgive. What would you 
really like to do to them? What do they need to do to 
get your forgiveness? Imagine that happening now. Get 
into the details. How long do you want them to suffer 
or do penance? 

When you feel complete, condense time and let it be 
over forever. Usually at this point you feel lighter, and it 
is easier to think about forgiveness. To indulge in this 
every day would not be good for you. To do it once as a 
closing exercise can be freeing. 



71 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



Exercise: Forgiveness 

Now we are ready to forgive. Do this exercise with a 
partner if you can, or do it out loud if you are alone. 

Again, sit quietly with your eyes closed and say, “The 

person I need to forgive is and 1 forgive 

you for .” 

Do this over and over. You will have many things to 
forgive some for and only one or two to forgive others 
for. If you have a partner, let him say to you, “Thank 
you, I set you free now.” If you do not, then imagine the 
person you are forgiving saying it to you. Do this for at 
least five or ten minutes. Search your heart for the injus- 
tices you still carry. Then let them go. 

When you have cleared as much as you can for now, 
turn your attention to yourself. Say out loud to yourself, 

“I forgive myself for .” Do this for another 

five minutes or so. These are powerful exercises and 
good to do at least once a week to clear out any remain- 
ing rubbish. Some experiences are easy to let go and 
some we have to chip away at, until suddenly one day 
they let go and dissolve. 

Exercise: Visualization 

Another good exercise. Have someone read this one 
to you if you can, or put it on tape and listen to it. 

Begin to visualize yourself as a little child of five or 
six. Look deeply into this little child’s eyes. See the long- 
ing that is there and realize that there is only one thing 
this little child wants from you, and that is love. So 
reach out your arms and embrace this child. Hold it 
with love and tenderness. Tell it how much you love it, 
how much you care. Admire everything about this child 
and say that it’s okay to make mistakes while learning. 
Promise that you will always be there no matter what. 
Now let this little child get very small, until it is just the 



72 




How to Change 



size to fit into your heart. Put it there so whenever you 
look down, you can see this little face looking up at you, 
and you can give it lots of love. 

Now visualize your mother as a little girl of four or 
five, frightened and looking for love and not knowing 
where to find it. Reach out your arms and hold this lit- 
tle girl and let her know how much you love her, how 
much you care. Let her know she can rely on you to 
always be there, no matter what. When she quiets down 
and begins to feel safe, let her get very small, just the 
size to fit into your heart. Put her there with your own 
little child. Let them give each other lots of love. 

Now imagine your father as a little boy of three or 
four — frightened, crying, and looking for love. See the 
tears rolling down his little face when he doesn’t know 
where to turn. You have become good at comforting 
frightened little children, so reach out your arms and 
hold his trembling little body. Comfort him. Croon to 
him. Let him feel how much you love him. Let him feel 
that you will always be there for him. 

When his tears are dry, and you feel the love and 
peace in his little body, let him get very small, just the 
size to fit into your heart. Put him there so those three 
little children can give each other lots of love and you 
can love them all. 



* * * 



There is so much love in your heart that you could heal the entire 
planet. But just for now let us use this love to heal you. Feel a 
warmth beginning to glow in your heart center, a softness, a gentle- 
ness. Let this feeling begin to change the way you think and talk 
about yourself. 



73 





In the infinity of lift where I am, 
ail is perfect, whole, and complete. 

Change is the natural law of my life. I welcome change. 

I am willing to change. I cfioose to change my thinking. 

I choose to change the words I use. 

I move from the old to the new with, ease and with. joy. 

It is easier for me to forgive than I thought. 

Forgiving makes me feel free and light. 

It is witfijqy that I learn to love myself more and more. 
The more resentment I release, the more love I have to express. 

Changing my thoughts makes me feel good. 

I am learning to choose to make today a pleasure to experience. 
All is well in my world 





Chapter Eight 



BUILDING THE NEW 



“The answers within me come to my 
awareness with ease.” 



I don’t want to be fat. 

I don’t want to be broke. 

I don’t want to be old. 

I don’t want to live here. 

I don’t want to have this relationship. 

I don’t want to be like my mother/father. 

I don’t want to be stuck in this job. 

I don’t want to have this hair/nose/body. 

I don’t want to be lonely. 

I don’t want to be unhappy. 

I don’t want to be sick. 

What You Put Your Attention on Grows 

The above shows how we are culturally taught to fight the nega- 
tive mentally — thinking that if we do so, the positive will automat- 
ically come to us. It doesn’t work that way. 

How often have you lamented about what you didn’t want? Did it 
ever bring you what you really wanted? Fighting the negative is a 
total waste of time if you really want to make changes in your life. 
The more you dwell on what you don't want, the more of it you create. 



75 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



The things about yourself or your life that you have always disliked are 
probably still with you. 

What you put your attention on grows and becomes permanent in 
your life. Move away from the negative, and put your attention on 
what it is that you really do want to be or have. Let’s turn the above 
negative affirmations into positive affirmations. 

I am slender. 

I am prosperous. 

I am eternally young. 

I now move to a better place. 

1 have a wonderful new relationship. 

I am my own person. 

I love my hair/nose/body. 

I am filled with love and affection. 

I am joyous and happy and free. 

I am totally healthy. 



Affirmations 

Learn to think in positive affirmations. Affirmations can be any 
statement you make. Too often we think in negative affirmations. 
Negative affirmations only create more of what you say you dont 
want. Saying, “I hate my job,” will get you nowhere. Declaring, 1 
now accept a wonderful new job,” will open the channels in your 
consciousness to create that. 

Continually make positive statements about how you want your 
life to be. However, there is one point that is very important in this. 
Always make your statement in the PRESENT TENSE, such as I am 
or “I have.” Your subconscious mind is such an obedient servant that 
if you declare in the future tense, “1 want,” or “I will have, then that 
is where that idea will always stay — just out of your reach in the 
future! 



76 




Building the New 



The Process of Loving the Self 

As I have said before, no matter what the problem, the main issue 
to work on is LOVING THE SELF. This is the “magic wand” that dis- 
solves problems. Remember the times when you have felt good 
about yourself and how well your life was going? Remember the 
times when you were in love and for those periods you seemed to 
have no problems? Well, loving yourself is going to bring such a 
surge of good feelings and good fortune to you that you will be danc- 
ing on air. LOVING YOURSELF MAKES YOU FEEL GOOD. 

It is impossible to really love yourself unless you have self- 
approval and self-acceptance. This means no criticism whatsoever. I 
can hear all the objections right now. 

“But I have always criticized myself.” 

“How can I possibly like that about myself?” 

“My parents/teachers/lovers always criticized me.” 

“How will I be motivated?” 

“But it is wrong for me to do those things.” 

“How am I going to change if I don’t criticize myself?” 



Training the Mind 

Self-criticism such as that illustrated above is just the mind going 
on with old chatter. See how you have trained your mind to berate 
you and be resistant to change? Ignore those thoughts and get on 
with the important work at hand! 

Let’s go back to an exercise we did earlier. Look into the mirror 
again, and say, “I love and approve of myself exactly as I am.” 

How does that feel now? Is it a little easier after the forgiveness 
work we have done? This is still the main issue. Self-approval and 
self-acceptance are the keys to positive changes. 

In the days when my own self-denial was so prevalent, I would 
occasionally slap my own face. I didn’t know the meaning of self- 
acceptance. My belief in my own lacks and limitations was stronger 
than anything anyone else could say to the contrary. If someone told 



77 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



me I was loved, my immediate reaction was, “Why? What could any- 
one possibly see in me?” Or the classic thought, “If they only knew 
what I was really like inside, they wouldn’t love me.” 

I was not aware that all good begins with accepting that which is 
within one’s self, and loving that self which is you. It took quite a 
while to develop a peaceful, loving relationship with myself. 

First, I used to hunt for the little things about myself that 1 
thought were “good qualities.” Even this helped, and my own health 
began to improve. Good health begins with loving the self. So do 
prosperity and love and creative self-expression. Later I learned to 
love and approve of all of me, even those qualities I thought were 
“not good enough.” That was when I really began to make progress. 

Exercise: I Approve of Myself 

I have given this exercise to hundreds of people, and 
the results are phenomenal. For the next month, say 
over and over to yourself, “I APPROVE OF MYSELE” 

Do this three or four hundred times a day, at least. 

No, it’s not too many times. When you are worrying, 
you go over your problem at least that many times. Let 
“I approve of myself’ become a walking mantra, some- 
thing you just say over and over and over to yourself, 
almost nonstop. 

Saying “I approve of myself’ is a guaranteed way to 
bring up everything buried in your consciousness that 
is in opposition. 

When negative thoughts come up, such as, “How can 
I approve of myself when I am fat?” or “It’s silly to think 
this can do any good,” or “I am no good,” or whatever 
your negative babble will be, this is the time to take 
mental control. Give these thoughts no importance. Just 
see them for what they are — another way to keep you 
stuck in the past. Gently say to these thoughts, “I let 
you go; I approve of myself.” 

Even considering doing this exercise can bring up a 
lot of stuff, like “It feels silly,” “It doesn’t feel true,” “It’s 



78 




Building the New 



a lie,” “It sounds stuck up,” or “How can 1 approve of 
myself when I do that?” 

Let all these thoughts just pass through. These are 
only resistance thoughts. They have no power over you 
unless you choose to believe them. 

“I approve of myself, I approve of myself, I approve 
of myself.” No matter what happens, no matter who 
says what to you, no matter who does what to you, just 
keep it going. In fact, when you can say that to yourself 
when someone is doing something you don’t approve 
of, you will know you are growing and changing. 

Thoughts have no power over us unless we give in to them. 
Thoughts are only words strung together. They have NO MEANING 
WHATSOEVER. Only we give meaning to them. Let us choose to 
think thoughts that nourish and support us. 

Part of self-acceptance is releasing other people’s opinions. If I were 
with you and kept telling you, “You are a purple pig, you are a pur- 
ple pig.” You would either laugh at me, or get annoyed with me and 
think I was crazy. It would be most unlikely that you would think it 
was true. Yet many of the things we have chosen to believe about 
ourselves are just as far out and untrue. To believe that your self- 
worth is dependent on the shape of your body is your version of 
believing that “You are a purple pig.” 

Often what we think of as the things “wrong" with us are only our 
expressions of our own individuality. This is our uniqueness and what 
is special about us. Nature never repeats itself. Since time began on 
this planet, there have never been two snowflakes alike or two rain- 
drops the same. And every daisy is different from every other daisy. 
Our fingerprints are different, and we are different. We are meant to 
be different. When we can accept this, then there is no competition and 
no comparison. To try to be like another is to shrivel our soul. We 
have come to this planet to express who we are. 

I didn’t even know who I was until I began to learn to love myself 
as I am in this moment. 



79 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



Put Your Awareness into Practice 

Think thoughts that make you happy. Do things that make you 
feel good. Be with people who make you feel good. Eat things that 
make your body feel good. Go at a pace that makes you feel good. 



Planting Seeds 

Think for a moment of a tomato plant. A healthy plant can have 
over a hundred tomatoes on it. In order to get this tomato plant with 
all these tomatoes on it, we need to start with a small dried seed. 
That seed doesn’t look like a tomato plant. It sure doesn’t taste like a 
tomato plant. If you didn’t know for sure, you would not even 
believe it could be a tomato plant. However, let’s say you plant this 
seed in fertile soil, and you water it and let the sun shine on it. 

When the first little tiny shoot comes up, you don’t stomp on it 
and say, “That’s not a tomato plant.” Rather, you look at it and say, 
“Oh boy! Here it comes,” and you watch it grow with delight. In 
time, if you continue to water it and give it lots of sunshine and pull 
away any weeds, you might have a tomato plant with more than a 
hundred luscious tomatoes. It all began with that one tiny seed. 

It is the same with creating a new experience for yourself. The soil 
you plant in is your subconscious mind. The seed is the new affir- 
mation. The whole new experience is in this tiny seed. You water it with 
affirmations. You let the sunshine of positive thoughts beam on it. 
You weed the garden by pulling out the negative thoughts that come 
up. And when you first see the tiniest little evidence, you dont 
stomp on it and say, “That’s not enough!” Instead, you look at this 
first breakthrough and exclaim with glee, “Oh boy! Here it comes! 
It’s working!” 

Then you watch it grow and become your desire in manifestation. 



80 




Building the New 



Exercise: Create New Changes 

Now is the time to take your list of things that are 
wrong with you and turn them into positive affirma- 
tions. Or you can list all the changes you want to make 
and have and do. Then select three from this list and 
turn them into positive affirmations. 

Just suppose your negative list was something like this: 

My life is a mess. 

I should lose weight. 

Nobody loves me. 

I want to move. 

1 hate my job. 

I should get organized. 

I don’t do enough. 

I’m not good enough. 

You can then turn them around to something like this: 

I am willing to release the pattern in me that cre- 
ated these conditions. 

I am in the process of positive changes. 

I have a happy, slender body. 

I experience love wherever I go. 

I have the perfect living space. 

I now create a wonderful new job. 

I am now very well organized. 

I appreciate all that I do. 

I love and approve of myself. 

I trust the process of life to bring me my highest good. 

I deserve the best, and I accept it now. 

Out of this group of affirmations will come all the things you want 
to change on your list. Loving and approving of yourself, creating a 
space of safety, trusting and deserving and accepting, will enable 
your body weight to normalize. They will create organization in your 
mind, create loving relationships in your life, attract a new job and a 



81 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



new place to live. It is miraculous the way a tomato plant grows. It 
is miraculous the way we can demonstrate our desires. 



Deserving Your Good 

Do you believe that you deserve to have your desire? If you don’t, 
you won’t allow yourself to have it. Circumstances beyond your con- 
trol will crop up to frustrate you. 

Exercise: I Deserve 

Look in your mirror again, and say, “I deserve to have 

or be , and I accept it now.” Say it two or 

three times. 

How do you feel? Always pay attention to your feel- 
ings, to what is going on in your body. Does it feel true, 
or do you still feel unworthy? 

If you have any negative feelings in your body, then 
go back to affirming, “1 release the pattern in my con- 
sciousness that is creating resistance to my good.” “I 
deserve .” 

Repeat this until you get the acceptance feelings, 
even if you have to do it several days in a row. 



Holistic Philosophy 

In our approach to Building the New, we want to use a holistic 
approach. The holistic philosophy is to nurture and nourish the 
entire being — the Body, the Mind, and the Spirit. If we ignore any 
of these areas, we are incomplete; we lack wholeness. It doesn t mat 
ter where we start as long as we also include the other areas. 

I If we begin with the body, we would want to work with nutrition, 
to learn the relationship between our choice of food and beverages, 
and how they affect the way we feel. We want to make the est 
choices for our body. There are herbs and vitamins, homeopat y an 
Bach Flower Remedies. We might explore colonics. 



82 




Building the New 



We would want to find a form of exercise that appeals to us. 
Exercise is something that strengthens our bones and keeps our bod- 
ies young. In addition to sports and swimming, consider dancing, 
Tai-Chi, martial arts, and yoga. I love my trampoline and use it daily. 
My slant board enhances my periods of relaxation. 

We might want to explore some form of body work such as 
Rolfing, Heller Work or Trager. Massage, foot reflexology, acupunc- 
ture, or chiropractic work are all beneficial, as well. There is also the 
Alexander Method, Bioenergetics, Feldenkrais, Touch for Health, 
and Reiki forms of body work. 

With the mind, we could explore visualization techniques, guided 
imagery, and affirmations. There are lots of psychological tech- 
niques: Gestalt, hypnosis, rebirthing, psychodrama, past-life regres- 
sions, art therapy, and even dream work. 

Meditation in any of its forms is a wonderful way to quiet the mind 
and allow your own “knowingness” to come to the surface. I usual- 
ly just sit with my eyes closed and say, “What is it 1 need to know?” 
and then I wait quietly for an answer. If the answer comes, fine; if it 
doesn’t, fine. It will come another day. 

There are groups that do workshops for all different tastes such as 
Insight, Loving Relationships Training, Advocate Experience, the 
Ken Keyes group, Actualizations, and many more. Many of these 
groups do weekend workshops. These weekends give you a chance 
to see a whole new viewpoint about life. No one workshop will total- 
ly clear up ALL your problems forever. However, they can assist you 
in changing your life in the here and now. 

In the Spiritual Realm, there is prayer, there is meditation, and 
becoming connected with your Higher Source. For me, practicing 
forgiveness and unconditional love are spiritual practices. 

There are many spiritual groups. In addition to the Christian 
churches, there are metaphysical churches, such as Religious Science 
and Unity. There is the Self-Realization Fellowship, M.S.I.A., 
Transcendental Meditation, the Siddha Foundation, and so on. 

I want you to know that there are many, many avenues you can 
explore. If one way doesn’t work for you, try another. All these sug- 



83 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



gestions have proved to be beneficial. 1 cannot say which one is right 
for you. That is something you will have to discover for yourself. No 
one method or one person or one group has all the answers for 
everyone. I don’t have all the answers for everyone. 1 am just one 
more stepping stone on the pathway to holistic health. 



84 





In the infinity of lift where I am, 
all is perfect, whole, and complete. My life is ever new. 
Each moment of my life is new and fresh and vital. 

I use my affirmative thinking to create exactly what 1 want. 
Tftis is a new day. I am a new me. 

I think differently. I speak differently. I act differently. 
Others treat me differently. 

My new world is a refection of my new thinking. 

It is a joy and a delight to plant new seeds, 
for I know these seeds will become my new experiences. 
All is well in my world. 





Chapter Nine 

DAILY WORK 



“I enjoy practicing my new mental skills.” 



If Children Gave Up When They Fell for the First Time, 
They Would Never Learn to Walk 

Like any other new thing you are learning, it takes practice to 
make it part of your life. First there is a lot of concentration, and 
some of us choose to make this “hard work.” I don’t like to think of 
it as hard work, but rather as something new to learn. 

The process of learning is always the same no matter what the 
subject — whether you’re learning to drive a car, or type, or play ten- 
nis, or think in a positive manner. First, we fumble and bumble as 
our subconscious mind learns by trial, and yet, every time we come 
back to our practicing, it gets easier, and we do it a little better. Of 
course, you won’t be “perfect” the first day. You will be doing what- 
ever you can do. That’s good enough for a start. 

Say to yourself often, “I’m doing the best I can.” 



Always Support Yourself 

I well remember my first lecture. When I came down from the 
podium, I immediately said to myself, “Louise, you were wonderful. 
You were absolutely fantastic for the first time. When you have done 
five or six of these, you will be a pro.” 



87 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



A couple of hours later, I said to myself, “I think we could change 
a few things. Let’s adjust this, and let’s adjust that.” I refused to crit- 
icize myself in any way. 

If I had come off the podium and begun berating myself with 
“Oh, you were so awful. You made this mistake, and you made that 
mistake,” then I would have dreaded my second lecture. As it was, 
the second one was better than the first, and by the sixth one, I was 
feeling like a pro. 



Seeing “The Law” Working All Around Us 

Just before I began writing this book, I bought myself a word 
processor/computer. I called her my “Magic Lady.” It was something 
new I chose to learn. I discovered that learning the computer was 
very much like learning the Spiritual Laws. When I learned the com- 
puter’s laws, then she did indeed perform “magic” for me. When I 
did not follow her laws to the letter, then either nothing would hap- 
pen or it would not work the way I wanted it to work. She would not 
give an inch. I could get as frustrated as I wanted while she patient- 
ly waited for me to learn her laws, and then she gave me magic. It 
took practice. 

It’s the same with the work you’re learning to do now. You must 
leant the Spiritual Laws and follow them to the letter. You cannot 
bend them to your old way of thinking. You must learn and follow 
the new language, and when you do, then “magic” will be demon- 
strated in your life. 



Reinforce Your Learning 

The more ways you can reinforce your new learning, the better. I 
suggest: 

Expressing Gratitude 
Writing Affirmations 
Sitting in Meditation 



88 




Daily Work 



Enjoying Exercise 

Practicing Good Nutrition 

Doing Affirmations Aloud 

Singing Affirmations 

Taking Time for Relaxation Exercises 

Using Visualization, Mental Imagery 

Reading and Study 



My Daily Work 

My own daily work goes something like this. 

My first thoughts on awakening before I open my eyes are to be 
thankful for everything I can think of. 

After a shower, I take half an hour or so to meditate and do my 
affirmations and prayers. 

Then after about 15 minutes of exercise, usually on the trampo- 
line, I will sometimes work out with the 6:00 a.m. aerobic program 
on television. 

Now I’m ready for breakfast consisting of fruit and fruit juices and 
herbal tea. I thank the Earth Mother for providing this food for me, 
and 1 thank the food for giving its life to nourish me. 

Before lunch I like to go to a mirror and do some affirmations out 
loud; I may even sing them — something like: 

Louise, you are wonderful, and I love you. 

This is one of the best days of your life. 

Everything is working out for your highest good. 

Whatever you need to know is revealed to you. 

Whatever you need comes to you. 

All is well. 

Lunch is often a large salad. Again, the food is blessed and 
thanked. 

In the late afternoon, I spend a few minutes on my slant board, 
allowing my body to experience some deep relaxation. I may listen 
to a tape at this time. 



89 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



Dinner will be steamed vegetables and a grain. Sometimes I’ll eat 
fish or chicken. My body works best on simple food. I like to share 
dinner with others, and we bless each other in addition to the food 

Sometimes in the evening, I take a few moments to read and study 
There is always more to learn. At this time I may also write out my 
current affirmation 10 or 20 times. 

As I go to bed, I collect my thoughts. I go over the events of the 
day and bless each activity. I affirm that I will sleep deeply and 
soundly, awakening in the morning bright and refreshed and looking 
forward to the new day. 

Sounds overwhelming, doesn’t it? To begin with, it seems like a 
lot to cope with, but after a short period of time, your new way of 
thinking will become as much a part of your life as bathing or brush- 
ing your teeth. You will do it automatically and easily. 

It would be wonderful for a family in the morning to do some of 
these things together. Meditating together in the morning to start the 
day or just before dinner brings peace and harmony to all. If you 
think you don’t have the time, you might get up half an hour earli- 
er. The benefits would be well worth the effort. 



How Do You Begin Your Day? 

What is the first thing you say in the morning when you wake up? 
We all have something we say almost every day. Is it positive or neg- 
ative? I can remember when I used to awaken in the morning and say 
with a groan, “OH GOD, ANOTHER DAY.” And that is exactly the 
sort of day I would have, one thing after another going wrong. Now 
when I awaken and before I even open my eyes, I thank the bed for a 
good night’s sleep. After all, we have spent the whole night together 
in comfort. Then with my eyes still closed, I spend about ten minutes 
just being thankful for all the good in my life. I program my day a bit, 
affirming that everything will go well and that I will enjoy it all. T is 
is before I get up and do my morning meditation or prayers. 



90 




Daily Work 



Meditation 

Give yourself a few minutes every day to sit in quiet meditation. If 
you are new at meditation, begin with five minutes. Sit quietly, 
observe your breathing, and allow the thoughts to pass gently 
through your mind. Give them no importance, and they will pass on. 
It is the nature of the mind to think, so don’t try to get rid of 
thoughts. 

There are many classes and books you can explore to find ways to 
meditate. No matter how or where you begin, you will eventually 
create the method best for you. 1 usually just sit quietly and ask, 
“What is it that I need to know?” I allow the answer to come if it 
wants to; if not, I know it will come later. There is no right or wrong 
way to meditate. 

Another form of meditation is to sit quietly and observe the breath 
as it goes in and out of your body. As you inhale, count one, and as 
you exhale, count two. Continue counting until you get to 10, then 
begin again at one. If you notice your counting takes you to 25 or so, 
just go back to one. 

There was one client who seemed to me to be so bright and intel- 
ligent. Her mind was unusually clever and quick, and she had a great 
sense of humor. Yet she could not get her act together. She was over- 
weight, broke, frustrated in her career, and without a romance for 
many years. She could accept all the metaphysical concepts quickly; 
they made a lot of sense to her. Yet she was too clever, too quick. She 
found it difficult to slow herself down enough to practice over a 
meaningful period of time the ideas she could grasp so quickly on a 
moment-by-moment basis. 

Daily meditation helped her enormously. We began with only 5 
minutes a day and very gradually worked up to 15 or 20 minutes. 

Exercise: Daily Affirmations 

Take one or two affirmations and write them 10 or 20 
times a day. Read them aloud with enthusiasm. Make a 
song out of your affirmations and sing them with joy. 

Let your mind go over these affirmations all day long. 



91 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



Affirmations that are used consistently become beliefs 
and will always produce results, sometimes in ways that 
we cannot even imagine. 

One of my beliefs is that I always have good relationships with my 
landlord. My last landlord in New York City was a man known to be 
extremely difficult, and all the tenants complained. In the five years 
I lived there, I saw him only three times. When 1 decided to move to 
California, 1 wanted to sell all my possessions and start fresh and 
unencumbered by the past. 1 began to do affirmations such as: 

“All my possessions are sold easily and quickly.” 

“The move is very simple to do.” 

“Everything is working in Divine Right Order.” 

“All is well.” 

I did not think about how difficult it would be to sell things or 
where I would sleep the last few nights or any other negative ideas. 
I just kept doing my affirmations. Well, my clients and students 
quickly bought all the little stuff and most of the books. 1 informed 
my landlord in a letter that I would not be renewing my lease, and 
to my surprise, I received a phone call from him expressing his dis- 
may at my leaving. He offered to write a letter of recommendation to 
my new landlord in California and asked if he could please buy the 
furniture, as he had decided to rent that apartment furnished. 

My Higher Consciousness had put the two beliefs together in a 
way 1 could not have conceived of: “I always have good relationships 
with my landlord,” and “Everything will sell easily and quickly. To 
the other tenants’ amazement, 1 was able to sleep in my own bed in 
a comfortable furnished apartment until the last moment, AND BE 
PAID FOR IT! I walked out with a few clothes, my juicer, my 
blender, my hair dryer, and my typewriter, plus a large check, and I 
leisurely took the train to Los Angeles. 



92 




Daily Work 



Do Not Believe in Limitations 

Upon arriving in California, it was necessary for me to buy a car. 
Not having owned a car before nor having made a major purchase 
before, I did not have any established credit. The banks would not 
give me credit. Being a woman and self-employed did not help my 
case any. 1 did not want to spend all my savings to buy a new car. 
Establishing credit became a Catch-22. 

1 refused to have any negative thoughts about the situation or 
about the banks. I rented a car and kept affirming that, “1 have a 
beautiful new car, and it comes to me easily.” 

I also told everybody I met that 1 wanted to buy a new car and had 
not been able to establish credit so far. In about three months’ time, 
I met a businesswoman who instantly liked me. When I told her my 
story about the car, she said, “Oh, well, I will take care of that.” 

She called a friend at the bank who owed her a favor, and told her 
that I was an “old” friend, and gave me the highest references. Within 
three days, 1 drove off a car dealer’s lot with a beautiful new car. 

I was not excited so much as I was “in awe of the process.” 1 
believe the reason it took me three months to manifest the car was 
that I had never committed myself to monthly payments before, and 
the little kid in me was scared and needed time to get up the courage 
to make the step. 

Exercise: I Love Myself 

I assume you are already saying, “1 approve of 
myself’ almost nonstop. This is a powerful foundation. 

Keep it up for at least a month. 

Now take a pad of paper and at the top write, “I 
LOVE MYSELF; THEREFORE...” 

Finish this sentence in as many ways as you can. Read 
it over daily, and add to it as you think of new things. 

If you can work with a partner, do so. Hold hands 
and alternate saying, “I love myself; therefore...” The 
biggest benefit of doing this exercise is that you learn it 
is almost impossible to belittle yourself when you say 
you love yourself. 



93 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



Exercise: Claim the New 

Visualize or imagine yourself having or doing or 
being what you are working toward. Fill in all the 
details. Feel, see, taste, touch, hear. Notice other peo- 
ple’s reactions to your new state. Make it all okay with 
you no matter what their reactions are. 

Exercise: Expand Your Knowledge 

Read everything you can to expand your awareness 
and understanding of how the mind works. There is so 
much knowledge out there for you. This book is only 
ONE STEP on your pathway! Get other viewpoints. 
Hear other people say it in a different way. Study with a 
group for a while until you go beyond them. 

This is a life work. The more you learn, the more you 
know, the more you practice and apply, the better you 
get to feel, and the more wonderful your life will be. 
Doing this work makes YOU FEEL GOOD! 



Begin to Demonstrate Results 

By practicing as many of these methods as you can, you will begin 
to demonstrate your results of this work. You will see the little mir- 
acles occur in your life. The things you are ready to eliminate will go 
of their own accord. The things and events you want will pop up in 
your life seemingly out of the blue. You will get bonuses you never 
imagined! 

I was so surprised and delighted when after a few months of doing 
mental work, I began to look younger. Today I look ten years younger 
than I did ten years ago! 

Love who and what you are and what you do. Laugh at yourself an 
at life, and nothing can touch you. It’s all temporary anyway. Next 
lifetime you will do it differently anyway, so why not do it different 
ly right now? 



94 




Daily Work 



You could read one of Norman Cousins’ books. He cured himself 
of a fatal dis-ease with laughter. Unfortunately, he didn’t change the 
mental patterns that created that dis-ease, and so just created anoth- 
er one. However, he also laughed himself to health on that one, too! 

There are so many ways you can approach your healing. Try them 
all, and then use the ones that appeal to you the most. 

When you go to bed at night, close your eyes and again be thank- 
ful for all the good in your life. It will bring more good in. 

Please do not listen to the news or watch it on TV the last thing 
at night. The news is only a list of disasters, and you don’t want to 
take that into your dream state. Much clearing work is done in the 
dream state, and you can ask your dreams for help with anything 
you are working on. You will often find an answer by morning. 

Go to sleep peacefully. Trust the process of life to be on your side 
and take care of everything for your highest good and greatest joy. 

There is no need to make drudgery out of what you are doing. It 
can be fun. It can be a game. It can be a joy. It’s up to you! Even prac- 
ticing forgiveness and releasing resentment can be fun, if you want 
to make it so. Again, make up a little song about that person or sit- 
uation that is so hard to release. When you sing a ditty, it lightens up 
the whole procedure. When I work with clients privately, I bring 
laughter into the procedure as soon as I can. The quicker we can 
laugh about the whole thing, the easier it is to let it go. 

If you saw your problems on a stage in a play by Neil Simon, you 
would laugh yourself right out of the chair. Tragedy and comedy are 
the same thing. It just depends on your viewpoint! “Oh, what fools 
we mortals be.” 

Do whatever you can to make your transformational change a joy 
and a pleasure. Have fun! 



95 





In the infinity of lift where I am, 
at[ is perfect, whole, and complete. 

I support myself, and life supports me. 

I see evidence of The Law working all around me 
and in every area of my life. 

I reinforce that which I learn in joyous ways. 

My day begins with gratitude and joy. 

I look forward with enthusiasm to the adventures of the day, 
knowing that in my life, “ All is good.” 

I love who I am and all that I do. 

I am the living, loving, joyous expression of life. 

All is well in my world. 




Part III 



PUTTING THESE 
IDEAS TO WORK 




Chapter Ten 

RELATIONSHIPS 



“All my relationships are harmonious. 



It seems all of life is relationships. We have relationships with 
everything. You are even having a relationship now with the book 
you are reading and with me and my concepts. 

The relationships you have with objects and foods and weather 
and transportation and with people all reflect the relationship you 
have with yourself. The relationship you have with yourself is high- 
ly influenced by the relationships you had with the adults around 
you as a child. The way the adults reacted to us then is often the way 
we react toward ourselves now, both positively and negatively. 

Think for a moment of the words you use when you are scolding 
yourself. Aren’t they the same words your parents used when they 
were scolding you? What words did they use when they praised you? 
I’m sure you use the same words to praise yourself. 

Perhaps they never praised you, so then you have no idea how to 
praise yourself and probably think you have nothing to praise. I am 
not blaming our parents, because we are all victims of victims. They 
could not possibly teach you anything they did not know. 

Sondra Ray, the great rebirther who has done so much work with 
relationships, claims that every major relationship we have is a 
reflection of the relationship we had with one of our parents. She 
also claims that until we clean up that first one, we will never be free 
to create exactly what we want in relationships. 



99 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



Relationships are mirrors of ourselves. What we attract always 
mirrors either qualities we have or beliefs we have about relation- 
ships. This is true whether it is a boss, a co-worker, an employee, a 
friend, a lover, a spouse, or child. The things you don’t like about 
these people are either what you yourself do or would not do, or what 
you believe. You could not attract them or have them in your life if 
the way they are didn’t somehow complement your own life. 

Exercise: Us Versus Them 

Look for a moment at someone in your life who 
bothers you. Describe three things about this person that 
you don’t like, things that you want him or her to change. 

Now, look deeply inside of you and ask yourself, “Where 
am I like that, and when do I do the same things?” 

Close your eyes and give yourself the time to do this. 

Then ask yourself if you ARE WILLING TO 
CHANGE. When you remove these patterns, habits, and 
beliefs from your thinking and behavior, either the other 
person will change or he or she will leave your life. 

If you have a boss who is critical and impossible to please, look 
within. Either you do that on some level or you have a belief that 
“bosses are always critical and impossible to please.” 

If you have an employee who won’t obey or doesn’t follow 
through, look to see where you do that and clean it up. Firing some- 
one is too easy; it doesn’t clear your pattern. 

If there is a co-worker who won’t cooperate and be part of the 
team, look to see how you could have attracted this. Where are you 
noncooperative? 

If you have a friend who is undependable and lets you down, turn 
within. Where in your life are you undependable, and when do you 

let others down? Is that your belief? 

If you have a lover who is cold and seems unloving, look to see t 
there is a belief within you that came from watching your parents in 
your childhood that says, “Love is cold and undemonstrative. 



100 




Relationships 



If you have a spouse who is nagging and nonsupportive, again 
look to your childhood beliefs. Did you have a parent who was nag- 
ging and nonsupportive? Are you that way? 

If you have a child who has habits that irritate you, I will guaran- 
tee that they are your habits. Children learn only by imitating the 
adults around them. Clear it within you, and you’ll find that they 
change automatically. 

This is the only way to change others — change ourselves first. 
Change your patterns, and you will find that “they” are different, too. 

Blame is useless. Blaming only gives away our power. Keep your 
power. Without power, we cannot make changes. The helpless vic- 
tim cannot see a way out. 



Attracting Love 

Love comes when we least expect it, when we are not looking for 
it. Hunting for love never brings the right partner. It only creates 
longing and unhappiness. Love is never outside ourselves; love is 
within us. 

Don’t insist that love come immediately. Perhaps you are not ready 
for it, or you are not developed enough to attract the love you want. 

Don’t settle for anybody just to have someone. Set your standards. 
What kind of love do you want to attract? List the qualities in your- 
self, and you will attract a person who has them. 

You might examine what may be keeping love away. Could it be 
criticism? Feelings of unworthiness? Unreasonable standards? Movie 
star images? Fear of intimacy? A belief that you are unlovable? 

Be ready for love when it does come. Prepare the field and be 
ready to nourish love. Be loving, and you will be lovable. Be open 
and receptive to love. 



101 




In the infinity of life where I am, 
all is perfect, whole, and complete. 

I live in harmony and balance with everyone I know. 

Deep at the center of my being, there is an infinite well of love. 
I now allow this love to flow to the surface. 

It fills my heart , my body, my mind, my consciousness, 
my very being, and radiates out from me in all directions 
and returns to me multiplied. 

The more love I use and give, the more I have to give. 

The supply is endless. 

The use of love makes me feel good; 
it is an expression of my inner joy. I love myself, 
therefore, I take loving care of my body. 

I lovingly feed it nourishing foods and beverages, 

I lovingly groom it and dress it, and my body lovingly 
responds to me with vibrant health and energy. 

I love myself, therefore, I provide for myself a comfortable home, 
one thatfids all my needs and is a pleasure to be in. 

I fill the rooms with the vibration of love 
so that all who enter, myself included, will feel this love 
and be nourished by it. 




I love myself, therefore., I work at a job I truly enjoy doing, 
one that uses my creative talents and abilities, 
working with and for people I love and who love me, 
and earning a good income. 

I love myself, therefore, I behave and think in a loving way 
to all people for I know that which I give out 
returns to me multiplied. 

I only attract loving people in my world, 
for they are a mirror of what I am. 

I lave myself, therefore, I forgive and totally release the past 
and all past experiences, and I am free. 

I love myself, therefore, I live totally in the now, 
experiencing each moment as good and knowing that my future 
is bright and joyous and secure, 
for I am a beloved child of the Universe, 
and the Universe lovingly takes care of me 
now and forever more. All is well in my world. 





Chapter Eleven 

WORK 



“I am deeply fulfilled by all that 1 do.” 



Wouldn’t you love to have the above affirmation be true for you? 
Perhaps you have been limiting yourself by thinking some of these 
thoughts: 

1 can’t stand this job. 

I hate my boss. 

I don’t earn enough money. 

They don’t appreciate me at work. 

I can’t get along with the people at work. 

I don’t know what I want to do. 

This is negative, defensive thinking. What kind of good position 
do you think this will get you? It is approaching the subject from the 
wrong end. 

If you are in a job you don’t care for, if you want to change your 
position, if you are having problems at work, or if you are out of 
work, the best way to handle it is this: 

Begin by blessing your current position with love. Realize that this 
is only a stepping stone on your pathway. You are where you are 
because of your own thinking patterns. If “they” are not treating you 
the way you would like to be treated, then there is a pattern in your 
consciousness that is attracting such behavior. So, in your mind, 
look around your current job or the job you had last, and begin to 



105 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



bless everything with love — the building, the elevators or stairs, the 
rooms, the furniture and equipment, the people you work for and 
the people you work with — and each and every customer. 

Begin to affirm for yourself that, “I always work for the most won- 
derful bosses.” “My boss always treats me with respect and courtesy,” 
and, “My boss is generous and easy to work for.” This will carry for- 
ward with you all your life, and if you become a boss, then you will 
be like that, too. 

A young man was about to start a new job and was nervous. I 
remember saying, “Why wouldn’t you do well? Of course you will be 
successful. Open your heart and let your talents flow out of you. 
Bless the establishment, all of the people you work with, and the peo- 
ple you work for, and each and every customer with love, and all will 
go well.” 

He did just that and was a great success. 

If you want to leave your job, then begin to affirm that you release 
your current job with love to the next person who will be delighted 
to have it. Know that there are people out there looking for exactly 
what you have to offer, and that you are being brought together on 
the checkerboard of life even now. 



Affirmation for Work 

“1 am totally open and receptive to a wonderful new position, one 
that uses all my talents and abilities, and allows me to express cre- 
atively in ways that are fulfilling to me. I work with and for people 
whom 1 love, and who love and respect me, in a wonderful location 
and earning good money.” 

If there is someone at work who bothers you, again bless them 
with love every time you think of them. In each and every one of us 
is every single quality. While we may not choose to do so, we are all 
capable of being a Hitler or a Mother Teresa. If this person is critical, 
begin to affirm that he or she is loving and full of praise. If he or she 
is grouchy, affirm that this person is cheerful and fun to be aroun 
If he or she is cruel, affirm that this person is gentle and compas 



106 




Work 



sionate. If you see only the good qualities in this person, then that is 
what he or she has to show to you, no matter what behavior is dis- 
played toward others. 



Example 

This man’s new job was to play the piano in a club where the boss 
was known for being unkind and mean. The employees used to call 
the boss “Mr. Death” behind his back. I was asked how to handle this 
situation. 

I replied, “Inside each and every person are all the good qualities. 
No matter how other people react to him, it has nothing to do with 
you. Every time you think of this man, bless him with love. Keep 
a ffir ming for yourself, I always work for wonderful bosses. Keep doing 
this over and over.” 

He took my advice and did exactly that. My client began to 
receive warm greetings, and the boss soon began to slip him bonus- 
es and hired him to play in several other clubs. The other employ- 
ees who were sending out negative thoughts to the boss were still 
being mistreated. 

If you like your job but feel you are not getting paid enough, then 
begin to bless your current salary with love. Expressing gratitude for 
what we already have enables it to grow. Affirm that you are now 
opening your consciousness to a greater prosperity and that PART of 
that prosperity is an increased salary. Affirm that you deserve a raise, 
not for negative reasons, but because you are a great asset to the 
company and the owners want to share their profits with you. 
Always do the best you can on the job, for then, the Universe will 
know that you are ready to be lifted out of where you are to the next 
and even better place. 

Your consciousness put you where you are now. Your conscious- 
ness will either keep you there or lift you to a better position. It’s up 
to you. 



107 





In the infinity of life where I am, 
all is perfect, whole, and complete. 

My unique creative talents and abilities flow through me 
and are expressed in deeply satisfying ways. 

There are people out there who are always 
looking for my services. I am always in demand 
and can pick and choose what I want to do. 

I earn good money doing what satisfies me. 

My work is a joy and a pleasure. 

All is weff in my world. 





Chapter Twelve 

SUCCESS 



“Every Experience is a Success.” 



What does “failure” mean anyway? Does it mean that something 
did not turn out the way you wanted it to, or the way you were hop- 
ing? The law of experience is always perfect. We outpicture our 
inner thoughts and beliefs perfectly. You must have left out a step or 
had an inner belief that told you that you did not deserve — or you 
felt unworthy. 

It’s the same when I work with my computer. If there’s a mistake, 
it is always me. It is something I have not done to comply with the 
laws of the computer. It only means that there is something else for 
me to learn. 

The old saying, “If at first you don’t succeed, try, try again,” is so 
true. It doesn’t mean beat yourself up and try the same old way 
again. It means recognize your error and try another way — until 
you learn to do it correctly. 

I think it is our natural birthright to go from success to success all 
our life. If we are not doing that, either we are not in tune with our 
innate capabilities, or we do not believe it can be true for us, or we 
do not recognize our successes. 

When we set standards that are much too high for where we are 
at this moment, standards we cannot possibly achieve right now, 
then we will always fail. 



109 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



When a little child is learning to walk or talk, we encourage him 
and praise him for every tiny improvement he makes. The child beams 
and eagerly tries to do better. Is this the way you encourage your- 
self when you are learning something new? Or do you make it harder 
to learn because you tell yourself that you are stupid or clumsy or 
a “failure”? 

Many actresses and actors feel they must be performance perfect 
when they arrive at the first rehearsal. I remind them that the pur- 
pose of rehearsal is to learn. Rehearsal is a period of time to make 
mistakes, to try new ways and to learn. Only by practicing over and 
over do we learn the new and make it a natural part of us. When you 
watch an accomplished professional in any field, you are looking at 
innumerable hours of practice. 

Don’t do what I used to do — I would refuse to try anything new 
because I didn’t know how to do it, and I didn’t want to appear fool- 
ish. Learning is making mistakes until our subconscious mind can 
put together the right pictures. 

It doesn’t matter how long you have been thinking of yourself as 
a failure; you can begin to create a “success” pattern now. It doesn’t 
matter what field you want to operate in. The principles are the 
same. We need to plant the “seeds” of success. These seeds will grow 
into an abundant harvest. 

Here are some “success” affirmations you can use: 

Divine Intelligence gives me all the ideas I can use. 

Everything I touch is a success. 

There is plenty for everyone, including me. 

There are plenty of customers for my services. 

I establish a new awareness of success. 

I move into the Winning Circle. 

1 am a magnet for Divine Prosperity. 

I am blessed beyond my fondest dreams. 

Riches of every sort are drawn to me. 

Golden Opportunities are everywhere for me. 



110 




Success 



Pick one of the above affirmations and repeat it for several days. 
Then pick another and do the same. Allow these ideas to fill your 
consciousness. Don’t worry about “how” to accomplish this; the 
opportunities will come your way. Trust the intelligence within you 
to lead you and guide you. You deserve to be a success in every area 
of your life. 




In tfie infinity of life, where. I am, 
all is perfect, whole, and complete. 

I am one with the Power that created me. 

I have within me all the ingredients for success. 

I now allow the success formula to flow through me 
and manifest in my world. 

Whatever I am guided to do will be a success. 

I learn from every experience. 

I go from success to success and from glory to glory. 
My pathway is a series of stepping stones 
to ever greater successes. 

All is well in my world. 



in 





Chapter Thirteen 

PROSPERITY 



“I deserve the best, and I accept the best, now.” 



If you want the above affirmation to be true for you, then you do 
not want to believe any of the following statements: 

Money doesn’t grow on trees. 

Money is filthy and dirty. 

Money is evil. 

I am poor, but clean (or good). 

Rich people are crooks. 

I don’t want to have money and be stuck up. 

1 will never get a good job. 

I will never make any money. 

Money goes out faster than it comes in. 

I am always in debt. 

Poor people can never get out from under. 

My parents were poor, and I will be poor. 

Artists have to struggle. 

Only people who cheat have money. 

Everyone else comes first. 

Oh, I couldn’t charge that much. 

I don’t deserve. 

I’m not good enough to make money. 

Never tell anyone what I have in the bank. 

Never lend money. 



113 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



A penny saved is a penny earned. 

Save for a rainy day. 

A Depression could come at any moment. 

I resent others having money. 

Money only comes from hard work. 

How many of these beliefs belong to you? Do you really think that 
believing any of them will bring you prosperity? 

It is old, limited thinking. Perhaps it was what your family 
believed about money, because family beliefs stay with us unless we 
consciously release them. Wherever it came from, it must leave your 
consciousness if you want to prosper. 

To me, true prosperity begins with feeling good about yourself. It 
is also the freedom to do what you want to do, when you want to do 
it. It is never an amount of money; it is a state of mind. Prosperity or 
lack of it is an outer expression of the ideas in your head. 



Deserving 

If we do not accept the idea that we “deserve” to prosper, then 
even when abundance falls in our laps, we will refuse it somehow. 
Look at this example: 

A student in one of my classes was working to increase his pros- 
perity. He came to class one night so excited, for he had just won 
$500. He kept saying, “I don’t believe it! I never win anything.” We 
knew it was a reflection of his changing consciousness. He still felt 
he did not really deserve it. Next week he could not come to class, 
as he had broken his leg. The doctor bills came to $500. 

He had been frightened to “move forward” in a new “prosperous 
direction” and felt undeserving, so he punished himself in this way. 

Whatev er we concen trat e on increases, so don’t concentrate on 
your bills. If you concentrate on lack and debt, then you will create 
more lack and debt. 

There is an inexhaustible supply in the Universe. Begin to be aware 
of it. Take the time to count the stars on a clear evening, or the grains 



114 




Prosperity 



of sand in one handful, the leaves on one branch of a tree, the rain- 
drops on a windowpane, the seeds in one tomato. Each seed is capa- 
ble of producing a whole vine with unlimited tomatoes on it. Be grate- 
ful for what you do have, and you will find that it increases. I like to 
bless with love all that is in my life now — my home, the heat, water, 
light, telephone, furniture, plumbing, appliances, clothing, trans- 
portation, jobs — the money I do have, friends, my ability to see and 
feel and taste and touch and walk and to enjoy this incredible planet. 

Our own belief in lack and limitation is the only thing that is lim- 
iting us. What belief is limiting you? 

Do you want to have money only to help others? Then you are 
saying you are worthless. 

Be sure you are not rejecting prosperity now. If a friend invites you 
to lunch or dinner, accept with joy and pleasure. Don’t feel you are 
just “trading” with people. If you get a gift, accept it graciously. If 
you can’t use the gift, pass it on to someone else. Keep the flow of 
things moving through you. Just smile and say “Thank you.” In this 
way you let the Universe know you are ready to receive your good. 



Make Room for the New 

Make room for the new. Clean out your refrigerator; get rid of all 
those little bits of stuff wrapped in foil. Clean out your closets; get 
rid of all the stuff you have not used in the last six months or so. If 
you haven’t used it in a year, definitely get it out of your home. Sell 
it, trade it, give it away, or burn it. 

Cluttered closets mean a cluttered mind. As you clean the closet, 
say to yourself, “I am cleaning out the closets of my mind.” The 
Universe loves symbolic gestures. 

The first time I heard the concept, “The abundance of the 
Universe is available to everyone,” I thought it was ridiculous. 

Look at all the poor people,” I said to myself. “Look at my own 
seemingly hopeless poverty.” To hear, “Your poverty is only a belief 
m your consciousness” only made me angry. It took me many years 
to realize and accept that I was the only person responsible for my 



115 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



lack of prosperity. It was my belief that I was “unworthy,” and “not 
deserving,” that “money is difficult to come by,” and that “I do not 
have talents and abilities,” that kept me stuck in a mental system of 
“not having.” 

MONEY IS THE EASIEST THING TO DEMONSTRATE! How do 
you react to this statement? Do you believe it? Are you angry? Are 
you indifferent? Are you ready to throw this book across the room? 
If you have any of these reactions, GOOD! I have touched something 
deep inside you, that very point of resistance to truth. This is the 
area to work on. It is time to open yourself to the potential of receiv- 
ing the flow of money and all good. 



Love Your Bills 

It is essential that we stop worrying about money and stop resent- 
ing our bills. Many people treat bills as punishments to be avoided if 
possible. A bill is an acknowledgment of our ability to pay. The cred- 
itor assumes you are affluent enough and gives you the service or the 
product first. I bless with love each and every bill that comes into my 
home. I bless with love and stamp a small kiss on each and every 
check I write. If you pay with resentment, money has a hard time 
coming back to you. If you pay with love and joy, you open the free- 
flowing channel of abundance. Treat your money as a friend, not as 
something you wad up and crush into your pocket. 

Your security is not your job, or your bank account, or your 
investments, or your spouse or parents. Your security is your ability 
to connect with the cosmic power that creates all things. 

I like to think that the power within me that breathes in my body 
is the same power that provides all that I need, and just as easily and 
simply. The Universe is lavish and abundant, and it is our birthright 
to be supplied with everything we need, unless we choose to believe 
it to the contrary. 

I bless my telephone with love each time 1 use it, and I af irm 
often that it brings me only prosperity and expressions of love. 1 0 
the same with my mail box, and each day it is filled to overflowing 



116 




Prosperity 



with money and love letters of all kinds from friends and clients and 
far-off readers of my book. The bills that come in I rejoice over, 
thanking the companies for trusting me to pay. 1 bless my doorbell 
and the front door, knowing that only good comes into my home. 1 
expect my life to be good and joyous, and it is. 



These Ideas Are for Everyone 

The man was a hooker and wanted to increase his business, so he 
came to me for a prosperity session. He felt he was good at his pro- 
fession and wanted to make $100,000 a year. 1 gave him the same 
ideas 1 am giving you, and soon he had money to put into Chinese 
porcelains. He spent so much time at home, he wanted to enjoy the 
beauty of his ever-increasing investments. 



Rejoice in Others’ Good Fortune 

Don’t delay your own prosperity by being resentful or jealous that 
someone else has more than you. Don’t criticize the way they choose 
to spend their money. It is none of your business. 

Each person is under the law of his or her own consciousness. 
Just take care of your own thoughts. Bless another’s good fortune, 
and know there is plenty for all. 

Are you a stingy tipper? Do you stiff washroom attendants with 
some self-righteous statement? Do you ignore the porters in your 
office or apartment building at Christmas time? Do you pinch pen- 
nies when you don’t need to, buying day-old vegetables or bread? Do 
you do your shopping in a thrift shop, or do you always order the 
cheapest thing on the menu? 

There is a law of “demand and supply.” Demand comes first. 
Money has a way of coming to where it is needed. The poorest fam- 
ily can almost always gather together the money for a funeral. 



117 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



Visualization — Ocean of Abundance 

Your prosperity consciousness is not dependent on money; your 
flow of money is dependent upon your prosperity consciousness. 

As you can conceive of more, more will come into your life. 

1 love the visualization of standing at the seashore looking out at 
the vast ocean and knowing that this ocean is the abundance that is 
available to me. Look down at your hands and see what sort of con- 
tainer you are holding. Is it a teaspoon, a thimble with a hole in it, a 
paper cup, a glass, a tumbler, a pitcher, a bucket, a wash tub, or per- 
haps you have a pipeline connected to this ocean of abundance? 
Look around you and notice that no matter how many people there 
are and no matter what kind of container they have, there is plenty 
for everyone. You cannot rob another, and they cannot rob you. And 
in no way can you drain the ocean dry. Your container is your con- 
sciousness, and it can always be exchanged for a larger container. Do 
this exercise often, to get the feelings of expansion and unlimited 
supply. 



Open Your Arms 

1 sit at least once a day with my arms stretched out to the side and 
say, “1 am open and receptive to all the good and abundance in the 
Universe.” It gives me a feeling of expansion. 

The Universe can only distribute to me what 1 have in my con- 
sciousness, and I can ALWAYS create more in my consciousness. It 
is like a cosmic bank. I make mental deposits by increasing my 
awareness of my own abilities to create. Meditation, treatments, and 
affirmations are mental deposits. Let’s make a habit of making daily 
deposits. 

Just having more money is not enough. We want to enjoy the 
money. Do you allow yourself to have pleasure with money? If not> 
why not? A portion of everything you take in can go to pure pleas 
ure. Did you have any fun with your money last week? Why not. 
What old belief is stopping you? Let it go. 



118 




Prosperity 



Money does not have to be a serious subject in your life. Put it 
into perspective. Money is a means of exchange. That’s all it is. What 
would you do and what would you have if you didn’t need money? 

We need to shake up our money concepts. 1 have found it is eas- 
ier to teach a seminar on sexuality than it is one on money. People 
get very angry when their money beliefs are being challenged. Even 
people who come to a seminar wanting desperately to create more 
money in their lives will go crazy when 1 try to change their limit- 
ing beliefs. 

“1 am willing to change.” “I am willing to release old negative 
beliefs.” Sometimes we have to work with these two affirmations a 
lot in order to open the space to begin creating prosperity. 

We want to release the “fixed income” mentality. Do not limit the 
Universe by insisting that you have “ONLY” a certain salary or 
income. That salary or income is a CHANNEL; IT IS NOT YOUR 
SOURCE. Your supply comes from one source, the Universe itself. 

There are an infinite number of channels. We must open our- 
selves to them. We must accept in consciousness that supply can 
come from anywhere and everywhere. Then when we walk down the 
street and find a penny or a dime, we say “Thank you!” to the source. 
It may be small, but new channels are beginning to open. 

“I am open and receptive to new avenues of income.” 

“I now receive my good from expected and unexpected sources.” 

“I am an unlimited being accepting from an unlimited source in 
an unlimited way.” 



Rejoice in the Small, New Beginnings 

When we work for increasing prosperity, we always gain in accor- 
dance with our beliefs about what we deserve. A writer was working 
to increase her income. One of her affirmations was, “I am making 
good money being a writer.” Three days later, she went to a coffee 
shop where she often had breakfast. She settled into a booth and 
spread out some paper she was working on. The manager came over 



119 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



to her and asked, “You are a writer, aren’t you? Will you do some 
writing for me?” 

He then brought over several little blank tent signs and asked if 
she would write, “TURKEY LUNCHEON SPECIAL, $3.95,” on each 
card. He offered her a free breakfast in return. 

This small event showed the beginning of her change in con- 
sciousness, and she went on to sell her own work. 



Recognize Prosperity 

Begin to recognize prosperity everywhere, and rejoice in it. 
Reverend Ike, the well-known evangelist from New York City, 
remembered that as a poor preacher he used to walk by good restau- 
rants and homes and automobiles and clothing establishments and 
say out loud, “That’s for me, that’s for me.” Allow fancy homes and 
banks and fine stores and showrooms of all sorts — and yachts — 
to give you pleasure. Recognize that all this is part of YOUR abun- 
dance, and you are increasing your consciousness to partake of 
these things if you desire. If you see well-dressed people, think, 
“Isn’t it wonderful that they have so much abundance? There is 
plenty for all of us.” 

We don’t want someone else’s good. We want to have our own good. 

And yet we do not own anything. We only use possessions for a 
period of time until they pass on to someone else. Sometimes a pos- 
session may stay in a family for a few generations, but eventually it 
will pass on. There is a natural rhythm and flow of life. Things come, 
and things go. I believe that when something goes, it is only to make 
room for something new and better. 



120 




Prosperity 



Accept Compliments 

So many people want to be rich, and yet they won’t accept a com- 
pliment. 1 have known many budding actors and actresses who want 
to be “stars,” and yet they cringe when they’re paid a compliment. 

Compliments are gifts of prosperity. Learn to accept them gra- 
ciously. My mother taught me early to smile and say, “Thank you” 
when I received a compliment or a gift. This advice has been an asset 
all my life. 

It is even better to accept the compliment and return it so the 
giver feels as though he or she has received a gift. It is a way of keep- 
ing the flow of good going. 

Rejoice in the abundance of being able to awaken each morning 
and experience a new day. Be glad to be alive, to be healthy, to have 
friends, to be creative, to be a living example of the joy of living. Live 
to your highest awareness. Enjoy your transformational process. 



121 





In the {infinity of life where I am, 
ad is perfect, whole, and complete. 

I am one with the Power that created me. 

I am totally open and receptive to the abundant flow of prosperity 
that the Universe offers. 

All my needs and desires are met before I even ash 
I am Divinely guided and protected, 
and I make choices that are beneficial for me. 

I rejoice in otfiers' successes, knowing there is plenty for us all. 

I am constantly increasing my conscious awareness of abundance, 
and this reflects in a constantly increasing income. 

My good comes from everywhere and everyone. 

All is well in my world. 





Chapter Fourteen 

THE BODY 



“I listen with love to my body’s messages.” 



1 believe we create every so-called illness in our body. The body, 
like everything else in life, is a mirror of our inner thoughts and 
beliefs. The body is always talking to us, if we will only take the time 
to listen. Every cell within your body responds to every single 
thought you think and every word you speak. 

Continuous modes of thinking and speaking produce body behav- 
iors and postures and “eases” or dis-eases. The person who has a per- 
manently scowling face did not produce that by having joyous, lov- 
ing thoughts. Older people’s faces and bodies show so clearly a life- 
time of thinking patterns. How will you look when you are elderly? 

I am including in this section my list of Probable Mental Patterns 
that create illnesses in the body, as well as the New Thought Patterns 
or Affirmations to be used to create health. They appear in my book 
Heal Your Body. In addition to those short listings, I will explore a 
few of the more common conditions to give you an idea of just how 
we create these problems. 

Not every mental equivalent is 100 percent true for everyone. 
However, it does give us a point of reference to begin our search for 
the cause of the dis-ease. Many people working in the alternative 
healing therapies use Heal Your Body all the time with their clients 
and find that the mental causes run 90 to 95 percent true. 



* * * 



123 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



THE HEAD represents us. It is what we show the world. It is how 
we are usually recognized. When something is wrong in the head 
area, it usually means we feel something is very wrong with “us.” 

THE HAIR represents strength. When we are tense and afraid, we 
often create those bands of steel that originate in the shoulder mus- 
cles and come up over the top of the head and sometimes even down 
around the eyes. The hair shaft grows up through the hair follicle. 
When there is a lot of tension in the scalp, the hair shaft can be 
squeezed so tightly that the hair can no longer breathe, and it dies 
and falls out. If this tension is continued, and the scalp is not 
relaxed, then the follicle remains so tight that the new hair cannot 
grow through. The result is baldness. 

Female baldness has been on the increase ever since women have 
begun entering the “business world” with all its tensions and frus- 
trations. We are not aware of baldness in women because women’s 
wigs are so natural and attractive. Unfortunately, most men’s toupees 
are still discernible at quite a distance. 

Tension is not being strong. Tension is weakness. Being relaxed 
and centered and peaceful is really being strong and secure. It would 
be good for us to relax our bodies more, and many of us need to relax 
our scalps, too. 

Try it now. Tell your scalp to relax, and feel if there is a difference. 
If you notice that your scalp visibly relaxes, then I would suggest 
you do this little exercise often. 

THE EARS represent the capacity to hear. When there are prob- 
lems with the ears, it usually means something is going on you do 
not want to hear. An earache would indicate that there is anger about 
what is heard. 

Earaches are common with children. They often have to listen to 
stuff going on in the household they really don’t want to hear. 
Household rules often forbid a child’s expression of anger, and the 
child’s inability to change things creates an earache. 

Deafness represents longstanding refusal to listen to someone. 
Notice that when one partner has a hearing impairment, the other 
partner often talks and talks and talks. 



124 




The Body 



THE EYES represent the capacity to see. When there are problems 
with the eyes, it usually means there is something we do not want to 
see, either about ourselves or about life: past, present, or future. 

Whenever I see small children wearing glasses, I know there is 
stuff going on in their household they do not want to look at. If they 
can’t change the experience, they will diffuse the sight so they don’t 
have to see it so clearly. 

Many people have had dramatic healing experiences when they have 
been willing to go back into the past and clean up what it was they did 
not want to look at a year or two before they began wearing glasses. 

Are you negating what’s happening right now? What don’t you 
want to face? Are you afraid to see the present or the future? If you 
could see clearly, what would you see that you don’t see now? Can 
you see what you are doing to yourself? 

Interesting questions to look at. 

HEADACHES come from invalidating the self. The next time you 
get a headache, stop and ask yourself where and how you have just 
made yourself wrong. Forgive yourself, let it go, and the headache 
will dissolve back into the nothingness from where it came. 

Migraine headaches are created by people who want to be perfect 
and who create a lot of pressure on themselves. A lot of suppressed 
anger is involved. Interestingly, migraine headaches can almost 
always be alleviated by masturbation if you do it as soon as you feel 
a migraine coming on. The sexual release dissolves the tension and 
the pain. You may not feel like masturbating then, but it certainly is 
worth a try. You can’t lose. 

SINUS problems, felt right in the face and so close to the nose, 
represent being irritated by someone in your life, someone who is 
close to you. You might even feel they are bearing down on you. 

We forget that we create the situations, then we give our power 
away by blaming the other person for our frustration. No person, no 
place, and no thing has any power over us, for “we” are the only 
thinkers in our mind. We create our experiences, our reality, and 
everyone in it. When we create peace and harmony and balance in 
our mind, we will find it in our lives. 



125 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



THE NECK AND THROAT are fascinating because so much “stuff’ 
goes on there. The neck represents the ability to be flexible in our 
thinking, to see the other side of a question, and to see another per- 
son’s viewpoint. When there are problems with the neck, it usually 
means we are being stubborn about our own concept of a situation. 

Whenever I see a person wearing one of those “collars,” I know 
this person is being very self-righteous and stubborn about not see- 
ing the other side of an issue. 

Virginia Satir, the brilliant family therapist, said that she did some 
“silly research” and found that there are more than 250 different 
ways to wash dishes, depending upon who is washing and the ingre- 
dients used. If we are stuck in believing there is only “one way,” or 
“one viewpoint,” then we are shutting out most of life. 

THE THROAT represents our ability to “speak up” for ourselves, 
to “ask for what we want,” to say “I am,” etc. When we have throat 
problems, it usually means we do not feel we have the right to do 
these things. We feel inadequate to stand up for ourselves. 

Sore throats are always anger. If a cold is involved, then there is 
mental confusion, too. LARYNGITIS usually means you are so angry 
you cannot speak. 

The throat also represents the creative flow in the body. This is 
where we express our creativity, and when our creativity is stifled 
and frustrated, we often have throat problems. We all know many 
people who live their whole lives for others. They never once get to 
do what they want to do. They are always pleasing mothers/fathers/ 
spouses/lovers/bosses. TONSILLITIS and THYROID problems are 
just frustrated creativity, resulting from not being able to do what 
you want to do. 

The energy center in the throat, the fifth chakra, is the place in the 
body where change takes place. When we are resisting change or are 
in the middle of change or are trying to change, we often have a lot 
of activity in our throats. Notice when you cough, or when someone 
else coughs. What has just been said? What are we reacting to? Is it 
resistance and stubbornness, or is it the process of change taking 
place? In a workshop I use coughs as a tool for self-discovery. Every 



126 




The Body 



time someone coughs, I have that person touch the throat and say 
out loud, “I am willing to change,” or “1 am changing.” 

THE ARMS represent our ability and capacity to embrace the 
experiences of life. The upper arms have to do with our capacity, and 
the lower arms have to do with our abilities. We store old emotions 
in our joints, and the elbows represent our flexibility in changing 
directions. Are you flexible about a changing direction in your life, 
or are old emotions keeping you stuck in one spot? 

THE HANDS grasp, hands hold, hands clench. We let things slip 
through our fingers. Sometimes we hold on too long. We are handy, 
tightfisted, openhanded, penny pinchers, butterfingers. We give 
handouts. We can handle ourselves, or we can’t seem to handle 
anything. 

We put a handle on something. It’s hands down. It’s hands off, 
hanky panky. We give someone a hand, are hand in hand, it’s on hand 
or out of hand, underhanded or overhanded. We have helping hands. 

Hands can be gentle or they can be hard, with knotty knuckles 
from overthinking, or gnarled with arthritic criticism. Grasping 
hands come from fear — fear of loss, fear of never having enough, 
fear that it won’t stay if you hold lightly. 

Tightly grasping a relationship only has the partner run away in 
desperation. Tightly clenched hands cannot take in anything new. 
Shaking the hands freely from the wrists gives a feeling of looseness 
and openness. 

That which belongs to you cannot be taken from you, so relax. 

THE FINGERS each have meaning. Problems in the fingers 
show where you need to relax and let go. If you cut your index fin- 
ger, there is probably anger and fear that has to do with your ego 
in some current situation. The thumb is mental and represents 
worry. The index finger is the ego and fear. The middle finger has 
to do with sex and with anger. When you are angry, hold your mid- 
dle finger and watch the anger dissolve. Hold the right finger if 
your anger is at a man and the left if it is at a woman. The ring fin- 
ger is both unions and grieif. The little finger has to do with the 
family and pretending. '■ 



127 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



THE BACK represents our support system. Problems with the 
back usually mean we feel we are not being supported. Too often we 
think we are only supported by our job or by our family or spouses. 
In reality, we are totally supported by the Universe, by Life itself. 

The upper back has to do with feeling the lack of emotional sup- 
port. My husband/wife/lover/friend/boss doesn’t understand me or 
support me. 

The middle back has to do with guilt. All that stuff that is in back 
of us. Are you afraid to see what is back there, or are you hiding what 
is back there? Do you feel stabbed in the back? 

Do you feel real “burnt out”? Are your finances in a mess, or do 
you worry about them excessively? Then your lower back may be 
bothering you. The lack of money or the fear of money will do it. 
The amount you have has nothing to do with it. 

So many of us feel that money is the most important thing in our 
lives, and that we could not live without it. This is not true. There is 
something far more important and precious to us without which we 
could not live. What is that? It is our breath. 

Our breath is the most precious substance in our lives, and yet we 
totally take for granted when we exhale that our next breath will be 
there. If we did not take another breath, we would not last three min- 
utes. Now if the Power that created us has given us enough breath to 
last for as long as we shall live, can we not trust that everything else 
we need will also be supplied? 

THE LUNGS represent our capacity to take in and give out life. 
Problems with the lungs usually mean we are afraid to take in life, or 
perhaps we feel we do not have the right to live life fully. 

Women have traditionally been very shallow breathers and have 
often thought of themselves as second-class citizens who did not 
have the right to take up space and sometimes not even the right to 
live. Today, this is all changing. Women are taking their place as full 
members of society and breathing deeply and fully. 

It pleases me to see women in sports. Women have always worke 
in the fields; but this is the first time in history, as far as I know, that 
women have gone into sports. It is wonderful to see the magnificent 
bodies that are emerging. 



128 




The Body 



Emphysema and heavy smoking are ways of denying life. They 
mask a deep feeling of being totally unworthy of existing. Scolding 
will not change the habit of smoking. It is the basic belief that must 
change first. 

THE BREASTS represent the mothering principle. When there are 
problems with the breasts, it usually means we are “over-mothering” 
either a person, a place, a thing, or an experience. 

Part of the mothering process is to allow the child to “grow up.” 
We need to know when to take our hands off, when to turn over the 
reins and let them be. Being overprotective does not prepare the 
other person to handle his or her own experience. Sometimes our 
“overbearing” attitudes literally cut off nourishment in a situation. 

If cancer is involved, then there is also deep resentment. Release the 
fear and know the Intelligence of the Universe resides in each one of us. 

THE HEART, of course, represents love, while our blood repre- 
sents joy. Our hearts lovingly pump joy throughout our bodies. 
When we deny ourselves joy and love, the heart shrivels and 
becomes cold. As a result, the blood gets sluggish, and we creep our 
way to ANEMIA, ANGINA, and HEART ATTACKS. 

The heart does not “attack” us. We get so caught up in the soap 
opera and dramas we create that we often forget to notice the little 
joys that surround us. We spend years squeezing all the joy out of 
the heart, and it literally falls over in pain. Heart attack people are 
never joyous people. If they do not take the time to appreciate the 
joys of life, they will just recreate another heart attack in time. 

Heart of gold, cold heart, open heart, black heart, loving heart, 
warmhearted — where is your heart? 

THE STOMACH digests all the new ideas and experiences we 
have. What or who can’t you stomach? What gets you in the gut? 

When there are stomach problems, it usually means we don’t 
know how to assimilate the new experience. We are afraid. 

Many of us remember when commercial airplanes first became 
popular. That we could get inside a big metal tube that would carry 
us safely through the sky was a new idea we found hard to assimilate. 

At every seat, there were throw-up bags, and most of us were using 
them. We would throw up into our barf bags as discreetly as we 



129 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



could, wrap them up and hand them to the stewardess, who spent a 
lot of her time running up and down the aisle collecting them. 

Now it is many years later, and though the bags are still at every 
seat, they are seldom used. We have assimilated the idea of flying. 

\ & ULCERS are no more than fear — tremendous fear of “not being 
good enough.” We fear not being good enough for a parent, we fear 
not being good enough for a boss. We can’t stomach who we are. We 
rip our guts apart trying to please others. No matter how important 
our job is, our inner self-esteem is very low. We are afraid they will 
find out about us. 

THE GENITALS represents the most feminine part of a woman, 
her femininity, or the most masculine part of a man, his masculini- 
ty; our masculine principle or our feminine principle. 

When we do not feel comfortable with being either a man or a 
woman, when we reflect our sexuality, when we reject our bodies as 
dirty or sinful, then we often have problems in the genital area. 

I seldom come across a person who was reared in a household 
where the genitals and their functions were called by their right 
names. We all grew up with euphemisms of one sort or another. 
Remember the ones your own family used? It could have been as 
mild as “down there,” to names that made you feel your genitals 
were dirty and disgusting. Yes, we all grew up believing that some- 
thing was not quite right between our legs. 

I feel the sexual revolution that exploded several years ago was in 
one way a good thing. We were moving away from Victorian 
hypocrisy. Suddenly it was okay to have many partners, and women 
as well as men could have one-night stands. Marital swapping 
became more open. Many of us began to enjoy the pleasure and free- 
dom of our bodies in a new and open way. 

However, few of us thought to deal with what Roza Lamont, 
founder of the Self-Communication Institute, calls “Mamas God. 
Whatever your mother taught you about God when you were three 
years old is still there in your subconscious mind UNLESS you have 
done some conscious work to release it. Was that God an angry, 
avenging God? What did that God feel about sex? If we are still car- 



130 




The Body 



rying those early guilt feelings about our sexuality and our bodies, 
then we are surely going to create punishment for ourselves. 

BL ADDER problems, ANAL problems, VAGINITIS, and PRO- 
STATE and PENIS problems all come under the same area. They 
stem from distorted beliefs about our bodies and the correctness of 
their functions. 

Every organ in our body is a magnificent expression of life with 
its own special functions. We do not think of our livers or our eyes 
as dirty or sinful. Why do we then choose to believe our genitals are? 

The anus is as beautiful as the ear. Without our anus we would 
have no way to release what the body no longer needs, and we would 
die very quickly. Every part of our body and every function of our 
body is perfect and normal, natural, and beautiful. 

I ask clients with sexual problems to begin to relate to their rec- 
tum, penis, or vagina with a sense of love and appreciation for their 
function and their beauty. If you are beginning to cringe or get irate 
as you read this, ask yourself why. Who told you to deny any part of 
your body? Certainly not God. Our sexual organs were created as the 
most pleasurable part of our body to give us pleasure. To deny this 
is to create pain and punishment. Sex is not only okay, it is glorious 
and wonderful. It is as normal for us to have sex as it is for us to 
breathe or eat. 

Just for a moment try to visualize the vastness of the Universe. It 
is beyond our comprehension. Even our top scientists with their lat- 
est equipment cannot measure its size. Within this Universe there 
are many galaxies. 

In one of these smaller galaxies in a far-off comer, there is a minor 
sun. Around this sun a few pinpoints revolve, one of which is called 
Planet Earth. 

I find it hard to believe that the vast, incredible Intelligence that 
created this entire Universe is only an old man sitting on a cloud 
above the Planet Earth ... watching my genitals! 

Yet so many of us were taught this concept as a child. 

It is vital that we release foolish, outmoded ideas that do not sup- 
port us and nourish us. I feel strongly that even our concept of God 



131 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



needs to be one that is for us, not against us. There are so many dif- 
ferent religions to choose from. If you have one now that tells you 
that you are a sinner and a lowly worm, get another one. 

I am not advocating that everybody run around having free sex at 
all times. I am saying that some of our rules do not make sense, and 
this is why so many people break them and become hypocrites. 

When we remove sexual guilt from people and teach them to love 
and respect themselves, then they will automatically treat them- 
selves and others in ways that are for their highest good and greatest 
joy. The reason we have so many problems with our sexuality now is 
because so many of us have self-hatred and self-disgust, and so we 
treat ourselves and others badly. 

It is not enough to teach children in school the mechanics of sex- 
uality. We need on a very deep level to allow children to remember 
that their bodies, genitals, and sexuality are something to rejojiqe'^ 
about. I truly believe that people who love themselves and their bod- 
ies will not abuse themselves or others. 

I find that most BLADDER problems come from being “pissed 
off,” usually at a partner. Something makes us angry that has to do 
with our femininity or our masculinity. Women have more bladder 
problems than men because they are more prone to hide their hurt. 
VAGINITIS again usually involves feeling romantically hurt by a 
partner. Men’s PROSTATE problems have a lot to do with self-worth 
and also believing that as he gets older he becomes less of a man. 
IMPOTENCE adds fear and is sometimes even related to spite 
against a previous mate. FRIGIDITY comes from fear or a belief that 
it is wrong to enjoy the body. It also comes from self-disgust, and it 
can be intensified by an insensitive partner. 

PMS, PREMENSTRUAL SYNDROME, which has reached epi- 
demic proportions, is concurrent with the increase of media adver 
tising. These ads continually hammer home the concept that the 
female body must be sprayed and powdered and douched and over 
cleansed in numerous ways to make it even barely acceptable. At the 
same time that women are coming into their own as equal beings, 
they are also being bombarded negatively with the idea that the em 



132 




The Body 



inine processes are not quite acceptable. This notion, combined with 
the tremendous amounts of sugar being consumed today, creates a 
fertile breeding ground for P.M.S. 

The feminine processes, all of them, including menstruation and 
menopause, are normal, natural processes. We must accept them as 
that. Our bodies are beautiful, magnificent, and wondrous. 

It is my belief that VENEREAL D1S-EASE is almost always sexual 
guilt. It comes from a feeling, often subconscious, that it is not right 
to express ourselves sexually. A carrier with a venereal dis-ease can 
have many partners, but only those whose mental and physical 
immune systems are weak will be susceptible to it. In addition to the 
old standards, in recent years the heterosexual population has creat- 
ed an increase of HERPES. This is a dis-ease that comes back again 
and again “to punish us” for our belief that “we are bad.” Herpes has 
a tendency to flare up when we are emotionally upset. That tells us 
a lot right there. 

Now, let’s take that same theory over into the gay community, 
where they have all the same problems everybody else has, plus 
much of society pointing their fingers at them and saying, “Bad!” 
Usually, their own mothers and fathers are also saying, “You’re bad.” 
This is a heavy load to carry, and it’s difficult to love yourself under 
these circumstances. It is not surprising that gay men were amongst 
the first to experience the dread dis-ease, aids. 

In heterosexual society, many women dread growing old because 
of the belief systems we have created around the glory of youth. It is 
not so difficult for the men, for they become distinguished with a bit 
of gray hair. The older man often gets respect, and people may even 
look up to him. 

Not so for most gay men, for they have created a culture that 
places tremendous emphasis on youth and beauty. While everyone is 
young to start with, only a few fit the standard of beauty. So much 
emphasis has been placed on the physical appearance of the body 
that the feelings inside have been totally disregarded. If you are not 
young and beautiful, it’s almost as though you don’t count. The per- 
son does not count; only the body counts. 



133 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



This way of thinking is a disgrace to the whole culture. It’s anoth- 
er way of saying, “Gay is not good enough.” 

Because of the ways gay people often treat other gays, for many gay 
men the experience of getting old is something to dread. It is almost 
better to die than to get old. And aids is a dis-ease that often kills. 

Too often gay men feel that when they get older, they will be use- 
less and unwanted. It is almost better to destroy themselves first, and 
many have created a destructive lifestyle. Some of the concepts and 
attitudes that are so a part of the gay lifestyle — the meat rack, the 
constant judging, the refusal to get close to another, and so on — are 
monstrous. And aids is a monstrous dis-ease. 



These sorts of attitudes and behavior patterns can only create guilt 
on a very deep level, no matter how much we may “camp.” 
Camping, which can be such fun, can also be extremely destructive, 
both to givers and recipients. It is another way of avoiding closeness 
and intimacy. 

In no way am I trying to create guilt for anyone. However, we 
need to look at the things that need to be changed in order for all of 
our lives to function with love and joy and respect. Fifty years ago, 
almost all gay men were closeted, and now they have been able to 
create pockets in society where they can at least be relatively open. 1 
feel it is unfortunate that much of what they have created gives so 



much pain to their gay brothers. While it is often deplorable the way 
straights treat gays, it is tragic the way many gays treat other gays. 

Men traditionally have always had more sexual partners than 
women; and when men get together, of course there will be a great deal 
more sex. That’s all fine and good. The bathhouses fulfill a wonderful 



need, unless we are using our sexuality for the wrong reasons. Some 
men like having lots of partners to satisfy their deep need for self- 
esteem rather than for the joy of it. I do not believe there is anything 
wrong with having several partners, and the use of alcohol and some 
recreational drugs on an “occasional basis” is fine. However, if we are 
getting bombed out of our heads every night, and if we “need several 
partners a day just to prove our self-worth, then we are not coming 
from a nourishing space. We need to make some mental changes. 



134 




The Body 



This is a time for healing, for making whole, not for condemna- 
tion. We must rise out of the limitations of the past. We are all 
Divine, Magnificent expressions of Life. Let’s claim that now! 

THE COLON represents our ability to let go, to release that which 
we no longer need. The body, being in the perfect rhythm and flow 
of life, needs a balance of intake, assimilation, and elimination. It is 
only our fears that block the releasing of the old. 

Even if constipated people are not actually stingy, they usually do 
not trust that there will ever be enough. They hold on to old rela- 
tionships that give them pain. They are afraid to throw out clothes 
that have been in the closet for years because they might need them 
some day. They stay in stifling jobs, or never give themselves pleas- 
ure, because they must save for that rainy day. We do not rummage 
in last night’s garbage to find today’s meal. Leant to trust the process 
of life to always bring you what you need. 

Our LEGS carry us forward in life. Leg problems often indicate a 
fear of moving forward or a reluctance to move forward in a certain 
direction. We run with our legs, we drag our legs, we pussyfoot, we 
are knock-kneed, pigeon-toed; and we have big, fat, angry thighs 
filled with childhood resentments. Not wanting to do things will 
often produce minor leg problems. VARICOSE VEINS represent 
standing in a job or place that we hate. The veins lose their ability to 
carry joy. 

Are you going in the direction you want to? 

KNEES, like the neck, have to do with flexibility; only they 
express bending and pride, ego and stubbornness. Often when mov- 
ing forward, we are fearful of bending, and we become inflexible. 
This stiffens the joints. We want to move forward, but we do not 
want to change our ways. This is why knees take so long to heal; our 
ego is involved. The knees take a long time because we get our pride 
and our self-righteousness involved. 

The next time you have a knee problem, ask yourself where you 
are being self-righteous, where you are refusing to bend. Drop the 
stubbornness and let go. Life is flow, life is movement; and to be 
comfortable, we must be flexible and move with it. A willow tree 



135 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



bends and sways and flows with the wind and is always graceful and 
at ease with life. 

Our FEET have to do with our understanding, our understanding 
of ourselves and of life — past, present, and future. 

Many old people have a difficult time walking. Their understand- 
ing has been warped, and they often feel there is no place to go. Little 
children move on happy, dancing feet. Elderly people often shuffle as 
if they are reluctant to move. 

Our SKIN represents our individuality. Skin problems usually 
mean we feel our individuality is being threatened somehow. We feel 
that others have power over us. We are thin-skinned. Things tend to 
get under our skin, we feel skinned alive, our nerves are right under 
our skin. 

One of the quickest ways to heal skin problems is to nurture your- 
self by saying in your mind, “I approve of myself,” several hundred 
times a day. Take back your own power. 

ACCIDENTS are no accident. Like everything else in our lives, we 
create them. It’s not that we necessarily say, “I want to have an acci- 
dent,” but we do have the mental thought patterns that can attract 
an accident to us. Some people seem to be “accident prone,” and oth- 
ers go for a lifetime without ever getting a scratch. 

Accidents are expressions of anger. They indicate built-up frus- 
trations resulting from not feeling the freedom to speak up for one’s 
self. Accidents also indicate rebellion against authority. We get so 
mad we want to hit people, and instead, we get hit. 

When we are angry at ourselves, when we feel guilty, when we feel 
the need for punishment, an accident is a marvelous way of taking 
care of that. 

It seems as though any accident is not our fault, that we are help- 
less victims of a quirk of fate. An accident allows us to turn to oth- 
ers for sympathy and attention. We get our wounds bathed and 
attended to. We often get bedrest, sometimes for an extended period 
of time. And we get pain. 

Where this pain occurs in the body gives us a clue to which area 
of life we feel guilty about. The degree of physical damage lets us 



136 




The Body 



know how severely we felt we needed to be punished and how long 
the sentence should be. 

ANOREXIA-BULIMIA is denying the self life, an extreme form of 
self-hatred. 

Food is nourishment on the most basic level. Why would you 
deny yourself nourishment? Why do you want to die? What is going 
on in your life that is so awful that you want to get out completely? 

Self-hatred is only hating a thought you have about yourself. 
Thoughts can be changed. 

What is so terrible about you? Were you reared in a critical fami- 
ly? Did you have critical teachers? Did your early religious training 
tell you that you were “not good enough” as you are? So often we try 
to find reasons that “make sense to us” for why we are not loved and 
accepted just as we are. 

Because of the fashion industry’s obsession with slenderness, 
many women who have as their main messages, “I am not good 
enough; what’s the use,” will use their bodies as a focal point for self- 
hatred. On one level they are saying, “If 1 were only thin enough, 
then they would love me.” But it doesn’t work. 

Nothing works from the outside. Self-approval and self-accept- 
ance are the key. 

ARTHRITIS is a dis-ease that comes from a constant pattern of 
criticism. First of all, criticism of the self, and then criticism of other 
people. Arthritic people often attract a lot of criticism because it is 
their pattern to criticize. They are cursed with “perfectionism,” the 
need to be perfect at all times in every situation. 

Do you know of anyone on this planet who is “perfect”? I do not. 
Why do we set up standards that say we have to be “Super Person,” 
in order to be barely acceptable? It’s such a strong expression of “not 
being good enough,” and such a heavy burden to carry. 

ASTHMA we call “smother love.” There is a feeling that you do 
not have the right to breathe for yourself. Asthmatic children often 
have “overdeveloped consciences.” They take on guilt feelings for 
whatever seems wrong in their environment. They feel “unworthy,” 
therefore guilty, and in need of self-punishment. 



137 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



Geographic cures sometimes work with asthma, especially if the 
family does not go along. 

Usually, asthmatic children will “outgrow” their dis-ease. This 
really means they go away to school, get married, or leave home 
somehow, and the dis-ease dissolves. Oftentimes, later in life, an 
experience will happen that pushes an old button within them, and 
they have another attack. When that happens, they are not really 
responding to the current circumstances, but rather to what used to 
go on in their childhood. 

BOILS AND BURNS, CUTS, FEVERS, SORES, “IT1S,” AND 
INFLAMMATIONS all are indications of anger expressing in the 
body. Anger will find its way to express, no matter how much we try 
to suppress it. Steam that is built up must be released. We fear our 
anger, lest we destroy our world, yet anger can be released as simply 
as saying, “I am angry about this.” True, we can’t always say this to 
our bosses. We can, however, beat the bed or scream in the car or 
play tennis. These are harmless ways to physically releasing anger. 

Spiritual people often believe they “shouldn’t” get angry. True, we 
are all working toward the time when we no longer blame others for 
our feelings, but until we arrive there, it is healthier to acknowledge 
what we do feel in the moment. 

CANCER is a dis-ease caused by deep resentment held for a long 
time until it literally eats away at the body. Something happens in 
childhood that destroys the sense of trust. This experience is never 
forgotten, and the individual lives with a sense of self-pity, finding it 
hard to develop and maintain long-term, meaningful relationships. 
Because of that belief system, life seems to be a series of disappoint- 
ments. A feeling of hopelessness and helplessness and loss permeates 
the thinking, and it becomes easy to blame others for all our prob- 
lems. People with cancer are also very self-critical. To me, learning 
to love and accept the self is the key to healing cancers. 

OVERWEIGHT represents a need for protection. We seek protec- 
tion from hurts, slights, criticism, abuse, sexuality, and sexual 
advances; from a fear of life in general and also specifically. Take 
your choice. 



138 




The Body 



I am not a heavy person, yet I have learned over the years that 
when I am feeling insecure and not at ease, 1 will put on a few pounds. 
When the threat is gone, the excess weight goes away by itself. 

Fighting fat is a waste of time and energy. Diets don’t work. The 
minute you stop, the weight goes back up. Loving and approving of 
yourself, trusting in the process of life and feeling safe because you 
know the power of your own mind make up the best diet I know of. 
Go on a diet from negative thoughts, and your weight will take care 
of itself. 

Too many parents stuff food in a baby’s mouth no matter what 
the problem is. These babies grow up to stand in front of an open 
refrigerator saying, “I don’t know what I want,” whenever there is a 
problem. 

PAIN of any sort, to me, is an indication of guilt. Guilt always 
seeks punishment, and punishment creates pain. Chronic pain 
comes from chronic guilt, often so deeply buried that we are not 
even aware of it anymore. 

Guilt is a totally useless emotion. It never makes anyone feel bet- 
ter, nor does it change a situation. 

Your “sentence” is now over, so let yourself out of prison. 
Forgiving is only giving up, letting go. 

STROKES are blood clots; congestion in the bloodstream in the 
area of the brain cutting off the blood supply to the brain. 

The brain is the computer of the body. Blood is joy. The veins and 
arteries are channels of joy. Everything works under the law and the 
action of love. There is love in every bit of intelligence in the 
Universe. It is impossible to work and function well without love 
and joy being experienced. 

Negative thinking clogs up the brain, and there is no room for 
love and joy to flow in its free and open way. 

Laughter cannot flow if it is not allowed to be free and foolish. It 
is the same with love and joy. Life is not grim unless we make it so, 
unless we choose to look at it in that way. We can find total disaster 
in the smallest upset, and we can find some joy in the greatest 
tragedy. It is up to us. 



139 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



Sometimes we try to force our life to go in a certain way when it 
is not for our highest good. Sometimes we create strokes to force us 
to go in a totally different direction, to reevaluate our lifestyles. 

STIFFNESS in the body represents stiffness in the mind. Fear 
makes us cling to old ways, and we find it difficult to be flexible. 
If we believe there is “only one way” to do something, we often 
find ourselves becoming stiff. We can always find another way 
to do things. Remember Virginia Satir and her more than 250 
different ways to do dishes. 

Notice where in the body the stiffness occurs, look it up on my list 
of mental patterns, and it will show you where in your mind you are 
being stiff and rigid. 

SURGERY has its place. It is good for broken bones and accidents 
and for conditions beyond the abilities of a beginner to dissolve. It 
may be easier under these conditions to have the operation, and con- 
centrate all the mental healing work on seeing that the condition is 
not recreated. 



More and more each day there are many wonderful people in the 
medical profession who are truly dedicated to helping humanity. 
More and more doctors are turning to holistic ways of healing, treat- 
ing the whole person. Yet most doctors do not work with the cause 
of any illness; they only treat the symptoms, the effects. 

They do this in one of two ways: They poison or they mutilate. 
Surgeons cut, and if you go to surgeons, they will usually recom- 
mend cutting. However, if the decision for surgery is made, prepare 
yourself for the experience so it will go as smoothly as possible, and 
you will heal as rapidly as possible. 

Ask the surgeon and staff to cooperate with you in this. Surgeons 
and their staffs in the operating rooms are often unaware that even 
though the patient is unconscious, he or she is still hearing and pick- 
ing up everything said on a subconscious level. 



I heard one New Age leader say she needed some emergency sur- 
gery and, before the operation, she had a talk with the surgeon and 
the anesthesiologist. She asked them please to play soft music dur 
ing the operation and for them to talk to her and each other contin 



140 




The Body 



uously in positive affirmations. She had the nurse in the recovery 
room do the same thing, and the operation went easily, and her 
recovery was rapid and comfortable. 

With my own clients, I always suggest they affirm that, “Every 
hand that touches me in the hospital is a healing hand and express- 
es only love,” and, “The operation goes quickly and easily and per- 
fectly.” Another is, “1 am totally comfortable at all times.” 

After the surgery, have some soft and pleasant music playing as much 
as possible, and affirm to yourself, “I am healing rapidly, comfortably, 
and perfecdy.” Tell yourself, “Every day I feel better and better.” 

If you can, make yourself a tape of a series of positive affirmations. 
Take your tape recorder to the hospital, and play your tape over and 
over while you rest and recuperate. Notice sensations, not pain. 
Imagine love flowing from your own heart down through your arms 
and into your hands. Place your hands over the part that is healing, 
and say to this place, “I love you, and I am helping you to get well.” 

SWELLING of the body represents clogging and stagnation in the 
emotional thinking. We create situations where we get “hurt,” and 
we cling to these memories. Swelling often represents bottled-up 
tears, feeling stuck and trapped, or blaming others for our own lim- 
itations. 

Release the past, let it wash away. Take back your own power. 
Stop dwelling on what you don’t want. Use your mind to create what 
you “do want.” Let yourself flow with the tide of life. 

TUMORS are false growths. An oyster takes a tiny grain of sand 
and, to protect itself, grows a hard and shiny shell around it. We call 
it a pearl and think it is beautiful. 

We take on old hurt and nurse it and keep pulling the scab off it, 
and in time we have a tumor. 

I call this running the old movie. I believe the reason women have 
so many tumors in the uterus area is that they take an emotional 
hurt, a blow to their femininity, and nurse it. I call this the “He done 
tne wrong” syndrome. 

Just because a relationship ends does not mean there is something 
wrong with us, nor does it lessen our self-worth. 



141 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



It is not what happens, it is how we react to it. We are each respon- 
sible for all our experiences. What beliefs about yourself do you 
need to change in order to attract more loving kinds of behavior? 



142 




In the. infinity of lift where I am, 
all is perfect, whole, and complete. 

I recognize my body as a good friend. 

Each odd in my body has Divine Intelligence. 

I listen to what it tells me, and know that its advice is valid. 
I am always safe, and Divinely protected and guided. 

I choose to be healthy and free. 

All is well in my world. 





Chapter Fifteen. 

THE UST 



“I am healthy, whole, and complete.” 



As you look through the following list taken from my book Heal 
Your Body, see if you can find the correlation between dis-eases you 
may have had or are having now and the probable causes I have listed. 

A good way to use this list when you have a physical problem is: 

1. Look up the mental cause. See if this could be true for you. If 
not, sit quietly and ask yourself, “What could be the thoughts 
in me that created this?” 

2. Repeat to yourself, “I am willing to release the pattern in my 
consciousness that has created this condition.” 

3. Repeat the new thought pattern to yourself several times. 

4. Assume that you are already in the process of healing. 

Whenever you think of the condition, repeat the steps. 



145 




I 

s 

§ 

=5 

I 

i 



Ul 

§ 

S 

Ul 

Q 

2 

O 

E 



1 

s 



<u 

u 

s 

<D 

rS 

c 3 

•d 

a- 

a 

o 

CD 

cS 

<y 

U-. 



Ex- 

CJ 

*£? 

H 

K 

A 



vo 






IB 




c 


■*-* 




a 








cu 

ho 






§ 


£ 


o 
1— 1 


U 


cs 




HO W 


•— 1 





gi 
s t 

o 
£ 




u 

tt 

3 



I 

■o 

3 



r 





VO 


So (— i 


O' 


o 


ho « : 
<-* CJ 


E S 


cj «J 


VO 

<o 


w> a 


CJ 


§ 3 


<o 


5 § 


« ^ 


2 a 


u 

g 

Sin 

<U 


rfi 77 
1 1 


■£ 


cs 

^ c 
s 5 
§ 13 


HO 




3 a 


ej «>0 


| 


~ K 
*=J 

<3 > 


~ £ 
fci § 


> $ 
3. ? 

O 


H-H 


H O 


h-H »~H 





o 

J 3 

u 

^3 



00 

e 

cf 

o 

o 

<u 

> 

O 

I- 

l 2 

eo 

_(S 

c 3 

o 

o 



£ 

1 



O 

c 

,£ 

•c? 



c £ 
.2 § 



e g 

' rC 



fr- 



> e 

Q I' 

g & 
2 § 



<U 

.9 

O 



<U 

</) 

<D 

■fl 

DC 

’■fl 

a 

U 

U t 4 -J 

g TJ 

“ i/> 

O 4 J 

z -5 



« iso 

» vo 

1 £ 
§ •» 
S 5 

* 'S 

V ^ 

£ M 

8 o 

VO *■* 

cj 

5 o 

2 ^ 

£ u 



O 

z ^ 

m 'a; 
« in 

£ « 
P* JCi 

o - 

% u 

* O 
<U 

•s 2 

a * 
2 ° 
OS J 3 

oo o p 

.2 .g 

2 * 
c o 

5 *3 

Pi riS 



u 

I 



fl 

•S 

■« 

«< 



146 



Addison's Dis-ease Severe emotional malnutrition. I lovingly take care of my body, my mind. 

See: Adrenal Anger at the self. and my emotions. 

Problems 



Adenoids Family friction, arguments. Child This child is wanted and welcomed and 

feeling unwelcome, in the way. deeply loved. 





s 




a 


<u 1— » 




>— t 


d c 




.1 






5! 


^ g 


tj 

4? 


*3 

1C 

> 


•8 £ . 
o a 

*“* SXi co 


5^ 




i £ 3 


co 










"Q <3 _ 



i | I .s 

S o CC, s 

3 S I S< 

i-h .s a a 



X 1 
3 g* 

w <u 

■s V 

jn P 



147 



lergies Who are you allergic to? Denying The world is safe and friendly. I am safe. I 

See: Hay Fever your own power. am at peace with life. 




Alz heimer *. Dis-ease Refusal to deal with the world as it is. There is always a new and better way for 

See: Dementia, Hopelessness and helplessness. me to experience life. I forgive and release 

Senility Anger. the past. I move into joy. 



© 



& « 
3 ^ 

3 ti 
w a 
-O 'p 

3 tu 

i g 

§ 's, 



O 

* 

,S c 

r o 



S' §\E 

K-H CJ 



!e 

© 

& w 
o 

13 ■*- 

g ^ 

3 O' 
bO .S2 

I* 

8 1 
55 g 
g & 

*r& 

5 3 



£ 

3 1 



& 



© 



8- 

<o 

u 

<3 



•£ ^ 
£ S 


■C ^ 
1*1 


c 

•5 o' 


33 t/> 


3 -2 


© © 


r % 


*■* H 


_o *-> 


o g 




© § 


* ~ 
3 & 

« nj 


E & 




t ~ 

^ s' 


a ^ 


•— i 

£ © 
o ^ 

s H 


JSL S 

<s> u 

<« s 


eserve 

asure 


•* 3 

t— 1 </) 


■“ 2 
tij 3 


ns ^ 
h a, 



• r-< 


tn 

o 






1 


£ 




as » 
. 2 . 5 


c 






Un C 


f— ( 






O 1 ) 


<-l-l 

f — 3 

<-t-d 

B T 3 

o 03 

(-S <L> 


■*-» 

p- 

CJ 

o 

u 

rt 

O 

4 -t 


03 

03 


T 3 
u o 

rt O 
i-J bjO 

U W> 

"2 M 


M’S 

.2 t - 1 
3 ti 
ti 

3 S- 


tr> 

ft 

u 

ti 

ti 5 


W 

U 

u 

ti 

03 

*-t— i 

o 


3 ^ 

•a jj 

4 -» ^ 

*-> 
o 

ti z 


fti 3 
ti H 3 


a 




3 

• u-i 


c« C 


»> 


*s 


a ^3 


5 

li, S 


ti 

D 


<L 3 

Q 


r ‘o 



8 

I 



<D 

Ih fti 

8- S 

c§ 

w 
a 

V 

<u 
u 
, v 
SJ >■< 

DX) o 

-d ^ 
C >r> 
« .g 

^ c« 

I 

QJ 4 -I 

cti 3 
3 w 
33 (A 



ti 

2 
CU 
<u a. 



I 

0 

1 



03 

6 

3 

o 



6 

<U 

U-. 

<u 

LTi 



A 

s 

I 
§ 

i* 



a 

3 

w 

.9 



v 

v> 



.2 

O 



If 

^ A) 



« 

O 



w 

I 



i 



3 



148 



lorectal Bleeding Anger and frustration. I trust the process of life. Only right and 

(Hematochezia) good action is taking place in my life. 




Anorexia Denying the self. Extreme fear. It is safe to be me. I am wonderful just as I 

See: Appetite, Loss of self-hatred, and rejection. am. I choose to live. I choose joy and self- 

acceptance. 



to 



MOW) 

.3 3 ■ B 

T3 < T3 
u u S 

t-S <U r-S 

PQ tO PQ 



149 




so 

V) 1 

S' 8 

p 6 
£ 

O Cl, 



so 

^ 00 

o c 

■+-J ■>— I 

o' £ 

i/> 

•2 | 



* 

o 



*33 

§ 






2 3 

S o 
§ & 



2 

a 

V> 

S? 



£ 

^ so 

0 s 

£l 

s’ §• 

■2 3 

*J d 

i/> a 

1 I 

►-. c 



& 

H 

JU 



i 



r 



£ 3 
2 § 

& S' 
§ J r' 
d 13 
e § 
a a 

> o' 
o <*> 
*"" 1 ^ 



c 

r 


me 




<j 

8* 


f 


o 

o 




2 


ti 


£ 




c 

cs 


so 

VO 

2 


2 ti 
rl 2 


i' 


s * 




o 


g S' 




6 

§■ 



« jS 

a d 

O £ 

-e § 

?s *> 

1*> 3 
•S w 
£ *c 

O *3 



■£ 3 

■£ <13 

S a 

•g b 

«, t 

S r£ 

« -| 

l-H 4 



<D So 

+3 su 

<U V> 

Co o 
s ** 
5 so 

s s 

S J 

a u 



oo 

d 

'2 

u 

d 

es 

t> 

Q 

60 

d 

'W 

A) 

Oh 

O ti 

S£ 

Cj Ph 

ti L_._! 

3 *2 
.3 * 
8 9 
ps •S 



* 

o 

ti 




60 

d 








b 

• H 








O 




(U 

£ 




‘5b 

d 

S 




4H 

o 




In 

Cfl 

ti 


6 

3 




ti 

GJ 

ti 


00 

ti 

< fH 




00 




l— i 




2 




ti 


Oh 






IA 




a 




£ 










O 




ti 


ti 

Oh 




3 

u 

o 

3 




O 

d 

u 

<U 

p 




Oh 

U 

CA 

GJ 

pq 

4H 




u 

ti- 

ed 


A 

u 

u 

ti 

ti 


,gJ 

Oh 

■H 


cd 

EC 

ti 

.2 


Pi 

IA 

lA 

GJ 




Oh 

r'H 

Oh 

o 




l-> 

d. 

60 

g 


a 


00 

ti 

•ti 

u 


dj 


0 

<u 

■s 


<u 

B* 

GJ 


Oh 

O 

>> 

O 


s 

GJ 

4H 


ti 

ti 

W 

ti 

ti 




Oi 

« 

go 

PH 


ti 

o 


d 

<u 

4J 

Z 


o 

d 

o 

g 


GJ 

4H 

2 

0- 


Oh 

•H 

00 

ti 


a 

d 

<u 

VA 


GJ 

-s 

2 


'*—> 

CJ 

■fl 


GJ 

U 

ti 

5 


*H 

2 

i 


ti 

O 

O 


ti 

cd 


o 

00 


d 

<73 


§ 


ti 

C« 


•5 


<0 

o< 

ti- 


■o 

43 


b 


(A 

•r-f 

a 


O 

t 


00 
G i 


<U 

U< 


Oh 

O 


<U 

U* 


■s 


<o 

tti 


g 


(J 

& 


0 

HJ 


cd 

U 


dS 


d 


G> 

tA 



£ 

R 

$ 



1 

s 

d. 

% 



* 

a. 

% 



(U 

.& 

SA 

8 

u 

X! 

U4 



.3 

x 

2 

o 

<4-1 £ 

O < 

i/l . . 
</> U 
o « 

i-J 1/3 



I 

S 



.9 

(A 

I 

(A 

S 



150 










o 






cJ 

> 


Jto 

</> 


a* 


'to 








</> 






s 


1? 






o 


H 


‘S' 


KH 


i 



•r^ 

Xi 

cs 


V) 

W> 




£ 


£ 




►— i 








<u 




cj 


CD 




> 

O 


tu 










J*. 

«u 


1 


W) 


o 

£ 


! 

U *1 

d j 


d 

S. 

i-4 


00 


O i 


J 



3 8 

3 

I 1 § -S 

•S (O rS 

B " s -a 

S' u o n 
•B u j- u 
b(/l PU > 



151 



Frustration at not being accepted. 

Inability to move forward with ease. I love and approve of myself. I give myself 

permission to go ahead. It’s safe to move. 




Lower Fear of money. Lack of financial I trust the process of life. All I need is 

support. always taken care of. I am safe. 



V) 

> 

o 

s . 

o £ 

* s 
i s 

a c 

>-4 •*-» 

. do 
4-> > 

3 i 

tO 

rC 

tO rw 

i] 

* J 



& 



r 



to ft 

o > 
s: o 

^ * 

g # 
^ t! 
o 

> &4 

o 



o 

o 

u 



to 

?* 

o 



* o 

3 J 

ry» 

■5 c 
8 .a 

o 

"H > 

K o 



to 

-e: 

4-4 

& 
u « 
<o K 
« to 

^3 £ 

§ -2 

o' .41 

il 

|> 

E I 

& ts 

B 

U C 

— a, 



<u 

10 

s' 

‘S' 

to 

2 

§< 

C 

« 

to 

> 

o 



o' 



a 




CO 


D£) 


3 


J 3 


r* 




u 


V 


rt 

X> 


Hh 

. <D 


$ 


si 


o> 

4 -* 




c« 

3 e _ 


g « 


"d 


§ pP 


.0 .2 


■S 3 


y § 


o o 
fi K 


3 c 


u 


£ to 

O 




4-4 

^3 <u 


■al 

3 § 



B* 

w 

id 

'& 

s 

o 

3 

u ^ 

s 

> a> 

a J 

T3 o 

cs S 

C« r-D 
M <D 
dj 0) 

P? g 

< .3 



nd 

tJ 

<u 

4 -> 

a 

u 

4-* 

0 
£ 

0? 

1 



T3 

K 

<L> 

4-4 

4-1 

u 

CO 



(2 



T3 

T5 





.a 


0 




i/i 


ID 




o 


<D 


u 

&> 


■3 to 


3 


&4 


« iS 




o- 


S X 




D 


a . . 


5 




pa u 




i 


"0 (✓) 


>2 




« 






pa 


fiQ 



I 

Ts 

pa 



152 



Bedwetting (Enuresis) Fear of parent, usually the father. This child is seen with love, with 

compassion, and with understanding. 
All is well. 




^‘1 

^ u 

.2 3 

S | 
■c § 



C/5 

^ . C/5 

J fl u 
fi |3 
2 « ’55 
S U 3 
g B -° 

2 3 J3 



.5 <u 
|1 


r p 

w 


Qj »-“« 

^ C/5 

p ;§ 


& 


'E 

c« 


S 6 

CJ <u 


JJ 


2 ^ 
l/l l-J 


<u 

> 


1 a 


■s £ 

« c 
3 Si 


C/5 

P 

£ 

u 


O . 
O C 
rC <U 

u -a 

£ s 

£ -ft 


o 

4-1 

0 

CU 

04 

o 


T3 « 

M 

s .a 
" e 

1 h 3 


IH C 
& & 
PS c/5 


* 


u 

,_l 

> 3 
? o 


f-i 

Cl S 

<u 

tu 


B &■ 

(3 >-' 
< c2 



153 



Small outbursts of anger. I calm my thoughts and I am serene. 




Bladder Problems Anxiety. Holding on to old ideas. I comfortably and easily release the old 

(Cystitis) Fear of letting go. Being pissed off. and welcome the new in my life. I am 



JO, 

o' 



§ 

s? 



s 

to 




new 


£ 


CJ 

u 






u 

« 








to 


sx, 


ns 






s 


c 


"3 




O 


£ 


& 




§ 

£ 



& 

-C ,S 
£ ’C 

§ a 



3 

Si, 

«-C 



3 



3 

O 

& 



u 

g 

Cl, 



U 

£ 

*-» 

P 

PQ 

a 5 

S? 

< 



P 

o 

00 

.9 

§ 

2 

>L 

O 



60 

P 



u 

T 3 






■5 


M 

<D 


03 


r— H 




0 


3 


a 


a 

£ 




CS 


0 


iS 


o 






cx 


O 


*d 




T 3 


»— * 


■ H 


o 




0 


2 


.15 

u 


a 




JP 


O 


<D 


<L) 




u 


\d 


XI 






-s 


0 


(U 

3 


o 

r* 




.a 


§ 


d 


u 

.3 




>> 

0 

■ ^“1 


1 


o 


U 

U 


d 

o 


a 

p 


h X 

§ Si 


u-t 

° Ji 

rX *S=t 

U f— • 


d 

4—1 

.2 


*d 

u 

*-» 

o 


« 

</i 

P. <u 


4 -J 

¥ O 
W> </> 

d w 


S .9 


OS 


2 

a 


u u 
OS * 


0 0 
-J d 



P 

o 



I 

s 



a 

0 

1 

a 



I 



•« 

o 

o 



I 

i 

’p 



wo. 



1 

►j 



154 



Lack of love as a child. Defeatism. I now choose to live in the ever-joyous 

“What’s the use? It won’t work NOW. My life is a joy. 

anyway.” 




Blood Problems Lack of joy. Lack of circulation Joyous new ideas are circulating freely 

See: Leukemia of ideas. within me. 



to 

-e "2 
■“ 5 

yt Q 
— 

r ST 

LO £ 

w « 
£ i-h 

.s ^ 

Q -s' 



<-4-4 

o 

u 

C<3 

<D 

U-t 




bb 


CD 

-s 

o 




fs aboui 
ad care 


u-i 




4-1 

<u 

CJ 


£ 






1j 




3 




13 tj 


C/5 






u 

5 






o 


CD 








Dh 


rg 

<■+-( 

o 




G 

> 

o 


5 

6 
CD 




8 §■ 
S 4 « 


CD 




T3 

<u 


M 

4-1 




CD 


p 

o 


In 

■ 

Q 


S2 


• ^ 
o 
PQ 

V 

SP 


d 

CD 

<n 

<D 


<D 

CJ 


d £ 
w o 

(A 4-rH 

CJ pU 




4J 

J3 


a 


.fe 

rt 





155 



yourself. supported. 




V- 

•2, 

•■s' ^ 
© S 
•£ .S 
3 1/1 

« -K 

e .5 
? -c 

Q •“ 



=K O 

Prf! 
S S 
£ co 
3 e 


^ "o' 




J* 8 
tu 

^ £ 


& 


t-H ° 
~ ?K 


v£> § 

7*^ &-4 


3 

w 


*X* -P 


CO 


yi 


£ * 


C ^ 
■— < ■*-* 


o 


* ^ 


"a 
■5 5 


&0 

b0 


1‘iTi 


3 3 

«e * 


g 

•*.* 


— ^ *a 


-a o 


CO 


H H E 


- ^ 


►3 



a* 

•c 

o 

■3 

3 

« 



« 

00 

ca 

t>0 

| 

■s 

Pi 




<L> 

*-* 

1 



<u 

l/l 

w 



u 

3 

a 

8 

8 

a 

H 

PS 



■w 

§ 

2 
2 

-c 

3 
£ ^ 



3 I 

■3 I 

53 ^ 

<o 3 
M o 

^ £ 



T3 

ti 

rt 

2 

o 

u 

3 

o 

O T3 
60 V 

60 15 

C <u 

■a c 



* 2 



« 



w 

o 



ns ^ 
<u o 
U-< G 




ru h3 

•j a 

pi rt 




■3 S5 S 
Q i/i o 



i 



I 

a-> 

1 



.3 

« 



)- 

O 

s 

(3 



>5 

*& 



& 



156 




Breast Problems A refusal to nourish the self. Putting I am important. I count. I now care for and 

everyone else first. Overmothering. nourish myself with love and with joy. I 
— Cysts, Lumps, Overprotection. Overbearing attitudes, allow others the freedom to be who they 

Soreness (Mastitis) are. We are all safe and free. 



<D 

> 



nP 



> 

o 



— 

§ 2 

. ♦O <✓) 

ns o 

CJ <sj 

£ 2 
o § 



|i 



s' 






£ 

£ 

>3 

u 



s « 

'-t— . $0 

r « 
5J g. 

p 

a.'S 
S a 

§ 3 

> £ 
-9 § 



c 

ns 



.g 



£ 

o 



a ~ 

fCj 

’S * 
§ .2 
<D ZS 

s ^ 

a, g 

,2 ^ 
T 3 § 

£ 

h-h ns 



CD 

r* 

5 



rO 

<s 

CD 

PC 

+-» 

d 

CD 

(A 

S 

a 

(j 

pi 






g> 



CD 

d 

D 

s 



CD 

P 4 

5 

O *! 



*kV\ *- 3 
&j 0 c/) 

c 



u 

o 

u 

CD 

Pm 



ID 

Pd 

+m 

W) 

_g 

'd 

<0 



X 

CD 

d 

CD 

> 

CD 

U 

O 

D 

O 

«« 

CD 

c/) 



O 

** Pd 
W W) 

a g 

O 

u a 
o w 
x ’■a 

* § 

T 3 60 

•H 



C 

<! 5 ! 

a | 

1 1 
s a 
p s 
■a ° 

5 to 

S ob 



o 


C/> 


nd Cm 


d 


M 

D 

Cj 


CJ 


(A 


d 


d 


<A 


o 


d 


3 


d 


-J 


^ -T3 


X 


pc 

C/) 


d 


CD 

>M 


nd d 

(D c« 


D 

rd 


•M 

d 


4— * 


jd 


1 S 


*M 


d 

CD 


■c 


< 


<3 S 
£ 6 


CD 

4C 

H 


<MM 

'd 

to 



60 



i- 

tt 



a s 

« -a 

3 .2 

II 



CD “ 

'f J 2 

^ cj 



D 

CD ^ 

tO <J X 



d 

o 



ftj 

<A .15 

«s d 

¥ ‘ c 

it 

z 






§£ t 



•e 

PQ 



D 

CD 

to 



1 

a 

2 

ca 



o 

4-> 

CCS 

M 

CD 

c/> 

V 

erf 

CD „ 
CD • 
tO * 



157 



Hopeless terror. A frantic stuffing I am loved and nourished and supported by 
and purging of self-hatred. Life itself. It is safe for me to be alive. 




co 

& 



-B </> 
h co 

s I 

AS 

! f 

fl 

II 

j * 



I g 

o -a 

£ I 
£ 
e 
£ 



•S ,£ 



r 



"B 

§ 

co 

s 

cl 

r 4 c 
■'~* 

c 'S . 
o g 
<u o 

s ^ *o 

N* fc »£L 



CO 



C 

3 



CO 

3 

CO 



^3 

£ 

a 



co 

O 

-J 



e 



. 

CO C3 
.2 *> 
% * 



!^ 

7 / ^o 

Pa" 

C \r> 
CO rj 

3 § 



B* 



£ u 

s £ 
8 1 
§ § 
•c 
c 



8* 



§- 



'B £ 

S 

B i— i 

1 S' 

2 1 

$§ 

V. C ^ 

.2 -B § 
*^h S 



Cl 

<o > 

rf; o 



-S' 

*3 

co rg 

1-5 

*5 3 



0. l* 

^ 1 ^ 
§ * £ 
I' s 



§o 



<u 

a L £, 

£ s' £ 
'£> = 

■“ 
ws $ 

c o 

.3 *5 



co 

> 

B 

g* 



u 

CO 



CO 

I 

I 

CO 

<o 

B 

.5 <j 

w U-( 

C o 

° IQ 

15 a 

J I 



T> 

fl 



A 

U 

fl 



IX 

s 

130 

c 



p 

pa 

a 

«_ 

fl 

< 



J 2 

u 

2 

3 

PQ 

a 



u 

£ 

S ^ 

CXi « 



I 

cx 



fl o 

& 8 

os £ 



in 

as 

fl 

3 

T 3 

C 

as 

2 

8* 

a -g 

3| 

T 3 ^ 
fl PA 
fl O 
fl in 




158 



the use? 




Candida (Candidiasis) Feeling very scattered. Lots of I give myself permission to be all that 

See: Thrush, Yeast frustration and anger. Demanding I can be, and I deserve the very best 

Infections and untrusting in relationships. in life. I love and appreciate myself 

Great takers. and others. 



p 


u 

<3 

Co 

t/5 


s 

rG 


fc 

G 


c 


O 




§ 


to 


to 


to 


s 


u 


s 





tXQ to 



t 


to 

3 

to 


i 

g 




OC 


3 

05 


§ 1 
to 


‘1 


to 

> 

0 


2 -S 

Vj c 


to 

> 

O 

£ 


c 


hh .2 




O 



£ 

O 



a 

<0 

to 

3 

to 



£ t 



.2 ^ 

a 3 

& i 
2 - 
? e 

b 'S 

2 3 
S’® 

O ^3 

2 c 

u ^ 



* 

o 

e 



o 

S' 



Jsi 

O 

o 



& 



§ 



to 

•*-4 

to 

yt 

i 

>-1 



X* 

u 

W 



4J 

ji 

■§ 

o 



Jf 

X 



T> 

<0 

CO 

W) 



n 

g 

o 

2 

<0 

cu 

•4-t 

G 

o 

X 

cs 

CO 

c? 

cs 



W) 


pa 


to 

G 




in 

G 


in 


G 

•q 


ui 

CX 


O 

PQ 


T 3 

u 


O 

G 


CJ 

• r-( 


<0 

*-* 

in 


•H 
r— < 

QJ 


M 

CtJ 


CX 

ex 


O 

.2 


in 

G 


u 

Uh 


4 -» 


CO 

PH 


rt 

a 


0 

PU 


;et 



JS) 

,<0 
t-4— < 

;G 

4-1 

G 

o 

2 8 

s -s 

S in 

G 

^ .5 

s « 

<3 -a 

I 



O 



"G 

c« 

u 

A 

cts 

<u 

CO 

in 



^3 

c« 

a 



I 

</) 

I 

u 



t/> 

</) 

<0 

G 

PC 

.2 

(73 

G 

O 

*X 3 

O 

s 



8J 

u 



(A 

1 



{/) 

"o 

I® 
s ^ 

U 



v 

i « - 

I 11 

Els 

5 P ii 

P* <U 

a </> to 

n 

u 



n 

3 

A 

u 



159 



Dark future. forward to every moment. 

Stored anger and self-punishment. I forgive others. I forgive myself. I am free 

to love and enjoy life. 




Cerebral Palsy A need to unite the family in an I contribute to a united, loving, 

See: Palsy action of love. and peaceful family life. All is well. 



2 ^ si, 

^ ^ 

^ 5 c 
u 3 i 

3 1 1 

f5 i .1 



fi-o J 

« ig « 

2 * T) 

& U d 



r— I VJ ft) 

<$) S rS 



»*— * l/) 

£ .2 
o *j 



160 



A refusal to change. Fear of the future. I am willing to change and to grow. 
Not feeling safe. I now create a safe, new future. 




b 

tJJ 

e 

.s 

& 

'ts 

§ vSL, 

i $ 
%> ~ 
« - 
"a 2 

ll 
S l 
z r 

£'S' 

£ t: 

a « 



y 

A 



§Z 

u v> 
a 2 

<u ~ 

- ^ 

s ^ 

C £ 

u S' 
>•> £ 
c §» 
o £ 



Co 

u ^3 

3 s 
5 s> a 
^ <u 



^ 5 

-Q| ■<— * 

z: -a 

^3 +-» 



3 

<3 



n3 

3 



C 

« _• 

§ * 
£ </> 



.„ a s 
£ £ < 

S' ^ e 
£ « £ 

* *’3 

= 'S § 

a jS £ 

K-, O Q 



^3 

3 



<o 

a 

so 

a< 

vs 



* 



3 

O 



Co 

Co 

3 



s? 

o 



£ ~ 



ifa 3 

o ^ 
sz £P 



-W 

^ s 

u -g 

V) O 



£ 

o 

^3 

3 

3 



§ r* 

*-< ^CL 

i-3 

.y s 

p3 ^ 

Jl § 
t: t* 
s o 

r-3 Vi 

£ Z 

^ a 
s *r 

t> *3 
«-H H 



<0 

a. 

co 

.3 



t 

« 

a. 

£ 



I 



1 sj 

c« *xj 

TJ ’S 
CJ o 
« a 

2 .g 

I' a 

d3 o 
-g -X 3 
c« o 

% a 

rS w 

a a 
s ■5 
« « 

s § 

a B, 
5 w 

PC <u 



A 

,U 

<-t-H 

"d 

3 

rt 

cn 

2 

|i 

3 >Js 
s *■» 
« 60 
M 3 
.6 ’</! 
5 8 

tn 0 , 

W 5 f 

fa u 



l 



X 

JUi 

E, 

a 



8 

B* 



§ C <U 

S B EC 

*|ii 

TJ ^ Sj 

- SQ LO 

U 



f 3 / 

« a 
J 

»-M 

O 

a e 
2 a 

« to 

fl f-< 

O « 

gp s 

o ^ 
60 ^ 

-J3 C3 

a o 

a ,3 

<4h 

2 fl 

(2 8 

o 

« 

.s 

a 



<U 

t 

tSl 

2 

E . . 
u ‘s 

U -t-H 

a 2 
•3 £ 

w O 
U 
W) 



(U 



8 

fa 



b 

o 



&< <3 



m _, 

C 

Pi U 

■S 1 jj| 

ts a to < 



tn 

„ W) 
<U 3 
tJ 

3 2 

.a § 

« o 

& t 

6 ^ 

• H 03 

_r 4J 

M r* 
O T3 



(U 

CJ 

pj 

l 

i 



a 

o 

U 



3 

O 

B 3 

■H 

2 

o 

X 

o 

W) 

bO 

a 

•H 
fa - 1 
faJ 

(U 

' 1 *J 
tfa -1 03 

O C3 
^ & 
S 4J 
fa ■£ 



a 

jg 

3 



Cl) 

03 

CS 

w 

<u 

fa-» 

J 3 

fl 

cj 

03 

a 

& 

b 

■c 

3 

a 

3 



i 

o 

U 



161 



See: Colon, Intestines, letting go of that which is over. life. All is in Divine right order. 

Mucus Colon, Spastic 

Colitis 




Co ma Fear. Escaping something or We surround you with safety and love. 

someone. We create a space for you to heal. You are 

loved. 



I 

£ 

<3 



^3 

§ 

lit 

o 

if 



a 

u 



a 

a o 
■2 c 

I ^ 

u 

« 

> >-H 

.S T* 

>*_. s 

o' a 
S c 

^ ‘C 

-S ,5 

•t! O 

S ^ 

u 3 

kh c 



'a 

s y 

-I 

JL ip 

I 

"3 >» 
C -C 

a ■“ 

* £ 
C o 
c 

«J o 
-c ■“ 

1 S 

^ S 

W S3 

■£ a 
w l ' H 

3 £ 



k - 1 a 

3 ■? 



3 

cu 



£ 

£ 

Ni 

e is 

s ~'vh, 

■tf £ 

a a 



£ ? 

1 S 
£ a 



CL> 

If 

M 



a 



u 

3 



tn 
tn 

«L> 

s 

a S> 

« c 



LO 



&j .a 
’"O 

■ ^ 05 

2 
O 



<U 

05 

s 

lu 



.a 

i 

<u 

i -5 

1a> s 

o g 

rS ° 
w 00 

‘S C 
O .3 

<« 2 
M o 
?■> rt 



1 


1 1 i 

2 s’ 


o 

4-i 


+-> 

05 


M 

«S 

•rj 


p 

o 


S? 


g 3 




<u 

p 


13 


S o 
00 


*05 


•B 


'H 


8 

LO 


An 

are 


Cl) 

& 


B 


£ 



£ |j 

6 el 

o 

-g a 

•§ ■S 
£ ■s 



e 

a 

o 

TS 

! 



:§ 

o 

U 

.a 



&> 



a 


u 

Cl 


cs 


k-M 

'? 


M 

•3 

& 


•S 


s 

CQ 


N 

c 

<u 


fl B 

i y eu 


8 

ff 


u 

u 

tO 


p 

cc 

p 


1 § o 

•S' <u 
a to 


•a 

a 


O 




O 


o 


U 






u 


U 



o 

U 



o 

U 



162 



ironary Thrombosis Feeling alone and scared. “I’m not I am one with all of life. The Universe 

See : Heart Attack good enough. 1 don’t do enough. totally supports me. All is well. 

I’ll never make it.” 




o 

£ 



•w 

•S xj 
<0 ^ 

§* E 






o 

si 



S' 



£ •!-» 
5 </> 
ts o 

hh Oh 



<0 

A 

O 

■*-j 

H3 

si 



r 

I 

*3 

ii 

&> a 

k ^ 
^ Oh 



s: 

o 



^ p— 

o <0 

^ «0 
s £ 

^S «o 
c *S£ 



•fi 



I 4 Si 


■3 ! 

'£ « 
£ -c 






S3 £ 

^ V *H 

43 O’ 
.13 <u 


</) 

r ■* 
5! $#> 






~ 2 


£ § 
,2 -e 






*T & 

CJ o 

s ^ 

^ c 


a ■“ 

a 

^ O 




<3 

"S 


£ ^ 
« o 


1 1 


^3 

O 

O 


se 


—H ~ 


S-H C 


be 


►*H 



t»J 

£ 

Cu 

_ i 

§ s 

2 £ 
A fc 

*S£ 
C +-» 

a 



^3 



rSi 



■P g 

E o 

&> M 

£ g 

>s_ o 

8 H 
1 1 
£ i 

t*j ^ 

H -a 



T3 




Th 




o 






P 


4J 


"5> 

d 


J3 


4-1 


P 


4-1 

« 


o 

4-4 


(H 

« 


d 

<u 

4-4 


Xi 


c/l 


o 




4-4 




2 


"ai 


( f\ 


s 


u 

T3 


<u 


< 


to 

3 



C 

o 

c? 



o 

43 

C? 

• rt 

CL 

■§* 

o 

H 

W 

to 

(JH 

d 

o 



£ 



>s 

o 



"a ^ 
u h 
43 « 

i/i 



bO 



to 



is 5 



.2 ‘S 


P 




u £ 


o 




3 C—I 

a ° 


DC 

C 


| a 


O M 




2 £ 


H rj 

fra 

JJ SI 


O 


^ 2 
3 M 



O-i 

O 

Or 

<U 


>.'4 

C/5 

<U 

d 


o 

ai 

r l 


O-H 

c 

Crt 




o 

p 






TJ 

03 

</) 


w 

d 

rS 


(U 




|H 

<£ 




<U 

a 


d 

■H 

C/) 


C« 

'g 


•i-h 

W) 

d 


Tj 

2 

<15 


4— > 

d 




<u 


03 


•i— < 




£ 


§ 


cu 


W 


^~] 


*73 

g 




o 


43 


*5 


C/1 

05 




2 

u 


e- 


C/5 

d 


Oi 


(2 


C/5 


s 


0-4 

o 


> 

o 


p 

Px 


o 



'■S u 

.5 ja 

PS ,« 

cu 1 *- 
XI <J 

° «j 

to Ii 

■Sf 

If 

3 5i 
d £ 
p P 

& Z 



b 

O 



S' a 

M fl 

« « a 

’fjj ii „§ 

g J5 < 

u 



V) 

EH 

I 



•a 

43 

o 

(3 

s 

« 

S* « 
5 u 

O CO 

H 

U 



I 



I 

Jl 

2 p- 

1 1 

Q <u 

M 

Jfi T3 
MC 

•g ii 

43 u 

g ^ 
u 



a 

d 

P 

I 

in 

<u 

3 



(3 



i 



163 



A thick belief that life won’t work Life loves me, and I love life. I now choose 
for you. “Poor me.” to take in life fully and freely. 




rt 0” 

*— < Oh 


u 


J-i 

O H 


8 S 


•£ 


> W 

S> ao 




o 

a 


cj C 


</) O 


M « 


vj is 

§ « 


u 


~ *3 


■s 


■3 a 

•i—i ™ 


Eg', 
o ? w 


ef 


% </> 


S a s 

3 P I- 
C >N « 


1 

ju 


r Tj 

1 8 
■2 J9 


“> *J J3 


i3 


3' g O 

Q •§ 

n w 4-i 

u ti c 

.Si, J5 | 

clTE> Q 


*-* <u 


(U 

Si 

PL, 

<U 


Q 

J S 

Si -id 


^ > r 


Pi 


<; .s 



Kl ftT 

.a ^ a 

O < 8 

S 4i i 

8*5 

q 



5 ° 

? Q 
K oo 
oo O O 

3 



J S-S* 



164 



Diarrhea Fear. Rejection. Running off. My intake, assimilation, and elimination 

are in perfect order. I am at peace with life. 




Dizziness (Vertigo) Flighty, scattered thinking. A refusal I am deeply centered and peaceful 

to look. in life. It is safe for me to be alive 

and joyous. 



O 

£ 



S 

^ c fa 

§ | * 
£ .2 Is 

Kh > <3 



r 

§ 



-t-r> 

CJ 


c 

o 

</> 


^3 

6 

£ 


•S 

r 


’S 


3 






>3 

s- 


£ 


o 


$e 


£ 


c 


"3 


r£> 
»— H 

> 


o 

u 

’S 


00 

2 

r£ y> 





qE* ^ 

U V5 

IS 

i ^ 
fa ^ 

HH r-G 



<o 

g 

Oh 



o ^ 



o 

£ 

r 



§ 

& 



^3 

c 

3 

& 

i g 

* :g 

~ ‘o' 

^ S' 
£ ^ 
« * 



s' 



> 

o 



I' 

CO 

o 

* 

^3 

O 

A ^ 

$ fa 

O U 

" pp 



<u 

> 

o 



g 



•*-> ►— « o 



<L> 

> 

O 



'% g 

" B 

"> .o 
o ^ 

" c 

W) PS 

a x 

•i—l w 

. 

* fa s 
I -I .2 
^ 8* 

ill 

5 > cj 
< > PQ 



u 

CD 

bfl 

(3 

as 

u 

</) 

d 

4J 



d 

as 

1 m 

as 

<u 

P-i 



3 

o 

>> 

+-> 

<L> 

OjO 



3 

0 

a 

VS 

& 
■*— » 

e? 

1 

• »-H 

"tJ 

CQ 



</> 

<U 

d 

a) 

</) 

'w 

a 

o 

P3 

nd 

d 

« 

d 

o 

*<7> 

(/) 

a 

Cu 

&< 

O 



o 

<u 

rd 



u 

4_» 

as 

K 



<u 

if) 

<u 

P3 



as 



d 
oj 

£ 
o 
£ 
<U 

W) O 

5 *- 

< O 



l-< 

as 

v 

P3 



CJ 

c« 

8- 

o 

4) 

■s 

a 

c 

u 

« 

<u 

i* 

a 

y 

tti 



Si, 

u 

b 

a 



f 

£ 



43 

(U 

O 

6 

< 



as 


I 






"u 

c« 


o 

B 


PQ 


§ 


| 


P 

8 



0) 

U 



165 



Menstrual Problems 




Earache (Otitis: Anger. Not wanting to hear. Too Harmony surrounds me. I listen with love 

External/Ear Canal much turmoil. Parents arguing. to the pleasant and the good. 

Media/Inner Ear) lama center for love. 



C F R 

« b y 

•Jh <✓> to 



8 § 

T3 4) 

w> 

a y 
'5b 
a <u 







DO 


c 




'o 

X 


| 


o 


i 


<D 

<0 


& 


jfc &j 

o V 


ns 


(/) 


(/) 


£ 1/5 


W 






w 



166 



Endometriosis Insecurity, disappointment, and I am both powerful and desirable. 

frustration. Replacing self-love with It’s wonderful to be a woman. I love myself 
sugar. Blamers. and I am fulfilled. 




Epilepsy Sense of persecution. Rejection of I choose to see life as eternal and joyous. I 



^3 

§ 

& 

3 





rC l-J 






8 


u 


tj 4, 




>*4 


cu 






>-Si 

O 


S3 

£ 


"3 






p O 


O 


§ 


*0 £ 
is) t3 




o 

«u 


r 


s 


s f 

to ^ 
N .o 


& 


> 

o 


$D 

(/) 


© 




H 


o 


S' 

§ 


io^ 

O 

u •— 1 


^3 

i 

o 


£ 

a 


I 

55 jw 




'tj SP 

§ i 


-c 

4-» 


<M 

§ 


5 s 

5 y 


ik- 

£ 


a S 

3 ^ 

w o 
o 


I 

<S) 


u 

s 

o 

S3 


§ s 

£ | 
« s 




■—4 bO 


►— 1 


►— i 


•— i £ 



§8 



c S 

& 

M-c 

o 

3> *> 
.S u 
~ c 

aj 

,<U r— H 

^ o 

CJ r— H 

*3 <u 
;d lo 



CS 

w 

Uh 



bO 

a 



<2 w 

— J 

6 'm 



S 

’5 



,<n 

<L) 

c 

o ^ 



p 

O 4J 

c is 
<u <J5 



-P 

a 

o ^ 

X bJD g- 

w d 3 

7. U L 

S’ -5 s 

o 

o 



rO 

!/) 

3 

Ph 



60 & 
04 



3 



o "rt 




eP 

■ r~* 

<u 

<u 

cn 



c« 

<u 



03 

<U 

P-. 

<U 



X3 

35 t+-J 

8 ^ 
a u) 

c <u 

r -5 



-O 

8 

£ 

.3 £ 

g-" 

I Ji 

J 



j* 

BJ 



Ji ^ 

3 S' 

&» 

W <U 

U 1/3 

J5* 



6 

05 



d 



167 



Inability to see ahead with joy. Li/e is eternal and filled with joy. 

Dark future. 




<u 

U 

2 

Oh 



i 



to 

£ 

O' 



£ 

O 

£ 

£ 

*3 

-C 

<0 



a ^ 

S ^" 

p 

^s to 
— . u 



s 

£ 

H3 



^3 

§ 

?*• 

O 



to 

to 



£ 

I 

§ 

<o 

u 

£ 

'I 

to 

.s 

’> 



y ^ 

a ^ 



* 

o 

£ 

H-i 

c£ 

■C? 



to 

I 

»< 

§- 

§ 

to 

> 

O 



s 

<3 

•-H 

o 

»-£ 

£ 



to 

r£* 



O' 



S' 

^ £ 
£ *- 
<3 bO 



bots 

S b 

^ £ 

b s 

s ^ 

o © 

sx, ^ 

^ ^0 

?3 

> s 

S s 

^£ Si 
h-h <-£ 







a 






6 7, 


DO 

3 

•H 




(0 






§ a 
^ 6 


o 




4-* 






U «J 


b£ 




£ 








in 




o 






g g 


■pH 

4-1 




^in 

4-* 






S g 


CO 




CO 






c > 


-s 










eu O 






> 

CO 




4-4 


tn rX 

if! t 2 


<u 




QJ 


m 


£ 


O )_i 


in 




in 


aj 


CO 


3 3 


O 

4-< 

W) 


1 


o 

4-> 

W) 


in 

O 

B* 


g 

Oh 


W r| 
> 

'& s 5 


g 


,co 

lH-4 


g 


£ 




^ S 
3 a 

>> f 


*£ 

£ 

CO 

£ 


GJ 

■S 

£ 


'3 

£ 

1 


Oh 

(U 

in 


•s 

<H-H 

O 



° £ 
2 o 



o 8 
2 U 



co 

CO 

H< 



o 

J— * 

to 



£ ^ 
3 £ 



<U 

£ 



<U 

■fl 



j-i 

C3 

4J 

Hh 



-M 

•c 



3 

u 

m 

£ 

P- 

<u 

xl 



a 

DO 

3 

• pH 

o 

o 



*-H fij 

03 £ 

<U <0 

H. xi 



o 

£ 

u 

X 

4-» 

o 

r£ 

in 

CO 

£ 

4-J 

cO 

X 

£ 

a 

s 

<u 

(C 

s 

a. 

y 

erf 



3 

O 

DO 

3 

u 

03 

3 

CO 

O* 

O 

u 

w 

**£ 

co 

U 



03 

(J-. 



I 

3 

u 



”£ 

<u 

in 

in 

O 



in 

•£ 

*£ 

co 

M 

<u 



<0 
U l/) 



T3 

<U 



CO 



- a 

'Sj s 

'3 £ 
« £ 
P-4 S—/ 



CO 

s 

o 

u 

3 

« 

O 



■O a 

a u 

X o 

B 2 

| 8 

Z l/> 



t3 .3 

4J P- 

o 

W ti 

^ s 

£ B 



u 

u 

A 

lb 



A 

BO 

i 

ft 

£ 

c 2 
oe’u 

P 

u- 



168 




it Oversensitivity. Often represents fear I am protected by Divine Love. I am always 

See: Overweight and shows a need for protection. safe and secure. I am willing to grow up 

Fear may be a cover for hidden anger and take responsibility for my life. I forgive 
and a resistance to forgive. others, and I now create my own life the 



a 1 

i 



e 



$ 



«o 

o 

«0 



£ 

u 



to 

£ 

*2, 

O’ 

V) 









5 












f ri 


yi 


a 


o 


w 


s 




t-H 


S 

a 




a 


sx, 


2 


CL, 




■c 


to 


£ 






T3 


<S) 




C 



■5 H 
£ 

i£r,”3 

l § 

§ ® 
§ 2 

C £ 
kh a 



^ 5 

'tfiT 

'S, o 

0 *» 
•>-> o 
W> ■“ 

1 s 

H 



tu 

s -s 
« -§ 



-S a 

•S £ 

* & 
3 ts 

b S 

rJC tO 
£,•§> 
rs 

Co ^ 

S na 
^ C 



<u 

> 

o 

T3 

•H 

a 

<u 

bO 

.5 

rQ 

4 mJ 

« 

M 

CJ 

bjO 

P 

< 



P 

<U 

£ 

*p 

</) 

*c 

p 

o 

P 

T3 

_<U 

*s 

<u 

nd 

bo 

.3 

<u 

w 

c« 

u 

<u 

bfi 

P 

< 



t 

p- 

CJ 

A 



cu 

bG 

P 

a 

o 

*r> 

•§ 



</> 

a 



S a 
q e 

k-4 <u 



<u 

bo 

c« 

M 

P 

<D 



U 

<u 

bC 

P 

T3 

O 

o 

.d 

2 

2 

u 

T3 

<d 

<j 

«S 

CL, 



u 

<U 

A 



<D 

pTJ 



<U 

PQ 



i/j 

& 

S3 

i 



js 

.SP 

fS 



169 



Fatigue Resistance, boredom. Lack of love I am enthusiastic about life and filled with 

for what one does. energy and enthusiasm. 






CU 




3 


■fl 


OjO 

c 


Ut-i 


■3 


o 


c 


a 

o 


s 


•3 


f-4 


u 


CJ 


<u 


bO 


’5? 


d 




< 



-s ^ 
a ^ 

« e 

J -g 

r5 o 
o 

a «x> 
5 >■> 



■g JS 

3 S 

c C 

w> 

S § 

3 JS 
^ u 
£ 2 



„ j»h jrt m 

« U* "C «j 

a rf § 3 
1! 3 | 2 
of 2 ^ 

2 2 i. § .a 



2 H w 

ills'll 



5 s S a .ti 

u < s § a .s 

*i « s 8 « 

2 cj JC' r 3 
0 i/) Q H 2 

fa 



131 

PQ . . 9- 
u w g 
8 GJ .3 
gj tO tO 

fa 



170 



Finger* Represent the details of life. I am peaceful with the details of life. 




Middle Finger Represents anger and sexuality. I am comfortable with my sexuality. 



S? 

1 



•« 



ir 

8 

a 



£ 

a 



o' 

s 

no 

I 



S' 

i 





?s 


V) 






£ 


§ 


1* 


CD 


</> 


£ 

o 


CD 

£ 


a 


o 




o 


*sT 





S. a 

ho _r* 
</> 

<D > 

rfi HO 
HO «✓> 

J * 

o 



§ 

& 



& 



■fi 

a 

o 

^ a 
s - 
2 

£ | 



v 

u 

T3 

G 

« 

C/i 

G 

O 

■rO 

G 

P 

£ 

g 

CJ 

c/l 

Si 

a 

<d 

c* 



"d 

a 

40 

4J 

M 

a 

r d 

G 

ce 

•H 

I 

dj 

-d 

HO 

a 

G 

<U 

V) 

Si 

a 

CD 

0$ 



0 

OjO 

1 

bJD 

G 



■s 



<u 

bJO 

JS 

u 

O 

< 



c3 

dJ 

a 



C/l 

tn 

CD 

O 

s 

ft 



2 

d 

o 

o 

u 

3 . 

2 $ 

* J O 

S2 TS 
S 2 
rS jj 
o ‘a 

00 T3 

•S W) 

£ d 
° 75 

o 

< ft 



ft 

Cl 



o 

d 



o 

T3 

d . 

CS L C> 



3 .3 
<5 -0 

<u c« 

A t£ 



« SP 

S 3 

ft ft 



M 

CD 

.3 

ft 

jf 

S 



1 I I 



CD 

W> 

G 

a 



C« 

a 



a 



Cl 

d 



HO 

ft 




; |° 




G 

HO 


o 

ft 


£ 


§ 


•o 

« 


1 


’d 


S ^ 




CD 

U 




*■> 


fi 


di 

CD 


1 


.a 

a 


« ^ 
E 


Flu 


dO 


O 

0 

ft 


o 

o 

ft 


2 

ft 


dO 



171 




a 




me. 




C3 

3 1 

VO 


s 

o 


8 


8 

iX bo 
be 3 


me 


i 


o 


5^ 


3 o 
O £ 


rfi 

a& 


►«*H 


g 


4S 


’S *£ 


3 

£ 


5u 


V 

& 

o 

s 


*H— . *-5 
£ 

«u 5 
3 S 


S ^ 
•2 &> 
§ ^ 


-c 

£ 

o 


VO 

s' 


e* 


s 


1 * 




© 

> 

£ 

&L, 


§ 

S 


£ 

3 « 


c © 
s ^ 


& 


tu 

•S 


o ^r 
cu 
O 

:? s 


cj O 
vo •’— ■> 
O 

O J- 


-§ 

^3 . 

S *> 

S 3 


S' 

§ 


> ^ 


£ •- 
^ & 


5 -£ 
§ ■§ 


J * 
£ 1 


<u 

> 

3 




P 




I — 1 ^ 





o 

2 ° 
S .S2 

o 

w P< 



172 



See: Stomach Problems 




Problems Worry about not being good enough. I rejoice in my own expression of life. 

I am perfect just as I am. I love and 
approve of myself. 



2 

o 

r 



£ 

o 

Oh 

> 

-+-j 

K 

u 



cu 
t D 

c/5 

Pi 

O 

4-1 

C3 

4-1 

bO 

C 

■S S' 

2 'g 





HH 


»— < 




*> 




*43 

u 


£ 


- 1 


•5 


§ § 
. _ 4-1 


S' 

r 




o 


2 


j: 


^ r 

5 ■s 


4—1 

§ 

£ 


1 £ 




Q A 


Vj O 


1 1 


£ <U 

© A 




Oh O 


2 ^ 


V) ■** 




■s g 


5 8 


£ t 4 

a £ 


M C 


i— a 


o 

bC 


. Victim 
died. 


r ‘d 


G 


C S3 




o ,3 


a y 

? ^ 

Irf 


§•1 
A 1 



<u . . 

W) 4> 

<■*- 2 

o 3 

a §L 

o ^ 

2 M 
C 



,4) 

"2 



eP'S 

tl 



.S' N 



4) 

£ £ 
41 41 

> > 
o o 



e? 

’3 

43 

)-. 

,o 



s 

4) 

s 

43 

.a 

(3 

3 



u 

c« 

bJO 

G 


is 

.3 


■ 1-4 

2 

o 

B 


43 

I- 

3 

2 


1 

a> 


M4 

»-l 

£ 

TJ 


d 

o 

S2 

41 


>- 

4-4 

C/5 


M 

o 

o 

Oh 


c/5 

c« 

u 

■f4 


1 

5 


•S 

'u 

<U 

P- 


QJ 

QJ 

< 


a 

*3 

-G 



■a 

a 

4 

o 



«3 



.a 

V) 

O 

u 



u 

5 § 

Mh O 
C 

>3 o 

I s 

S u 

d 4> 

« <4) 

3 




41 

% 

41 

Jj 

5 

B 

3 4) 

13 

43 £ 

c £ 

§ SJ 

5 m 
C§ 



j 



173 



The need to dominate. Impatience, I am safe and secure. I am at peace with 
anger. myself and with others. 




So 

W> « 
JS ^ 

•ti e 
* ? 
-Si ~ 

S I 



~ 5N 

^ O 
ss “ r — % 



174 



:adaches Invalidating the self. Self-criticism. I love and approve of myself. I see myself 

See: Migraine Fear. and what I do with eyes of love. I am safe. 

Headaches 




Attack Squeezing all the joy out of the heart I bring joy back to the center of my heart. 



o 



(2 2 



> 5 

,3 

« a 

bfl £ 

^ a 
> -w 

O C 



I:!' 

& 5 

O -C 



>3, 

s' 

<y) 

£ 

a 



<2, 

-a 



^ £ 
£ ^ 

g 2 



3 

V 

d 

o 



o 

a 

u 

O 

G 

O 

s 



u 

O 

> 

,o3 



C/5 

rj 










G 


03 




JJ 


Cj 




3 


4d 




o 


GJ 




u 






O- 


4-* 




1 


(-M 


C/5 


OS 


o 


G 

o 

G 


G 5 

•l-H 


2 

4_t 

05 


O 

ri 


G 

cj 


'G 




•3 

M 


G 

rt 


ef 


03 

as 


G 

• r— < 


"3 




>-l 

4-1 


G 


o 


C/5 



•*-* u-i hj 

V ° £ 
W3^ 3 
G <j ,G 
O oS <U 

J J 



c« 

& 

M-c 

W) 

1 

o 

4-t 

G 

a 

M 

C« 

cj 

H* 

G 

03 

Cl) 

Uh 



03 

<D 

U-i 



os 

2 

u 

g/rf 



§ 

5 g 

•rl O 



2 u 



05 




<U u 

o -S 


*05 

O 


05 


5 2 




a 

3 


.a cl 


G 

o 


S 


J3 


2 


1 cu 2 


H 


Cl, 


■5 ■; 6 



<u 

w o _y 
<u G r2 
to to P 



175 



Hemorrhoids Fear of deadlines. Anger of the past. I release all that is unlike love. There 

See: Anus Afraid to let go. Feeling burdened. is time and space for everything I want to do. 




•patitis Resistance to change. Fear, anger, My mind is cleansed and free. I leave the 

See- Liver Problems hatred. Liver is the seat of anger past and move into the new. All is well. 

and rage. 



$0 

. J5, 

3 g 
.2 § 
§ ~ 
£ JSr> 

C to 
3 £ 

* 

^ a 

s B 



c 

* 

0 

1 i 



I -S 
>2 .2 
s o 

|? 



<S> 



° 1 
O 5 



0 
c 

1 
s' 



to 

> 

o 



•s 

o 

£ 

2 ’S 
g 5 



XL, 

w> S 


o' £ 


^3 




<o 

tj 


^ a 

•w 1,3 
^3 C 4) 


&* § 
u ^ 


§ n-i 
£>VT* 


"T3 

§ 


« 

to 

SX 


•S«£ 


rs O 


M fcT 


a* 


>*-» 


£ £ 4J 

as J -® 
3 £ 2 


'•j 2S 

u i 

«& 5 
2 c 


sexua 

wond 


•S 


i 

►— i 



£ 



$ 



to -O 

■S § 

1 'g 

2 J 

§ Ti 

,s- § 

32 

a. 

s -a 






„ U5 

fl 8 

•a b 

a g- 

to C 
</i « 

-3 m 

3 K 

o <J 



c « 



T3 

3 

3 



g 

fc 

o 

o 

e 



a g 

3 5 

PS T3 



w S 

j § 3 

"I u 

-d « -n 
(3 o 3 

23 -3 -d 

S)^ o 



(« E3 



00 



4> .H 

, g2 
& M .9 . 
c .a S 22 

•S 3 3 s 
!« 3 ^,5 

.2 p. « c 



4) 

22 



— u 
,S SJO 



a g ^ « 

2 so o 



(/> 

•E 

o 

£ 



pa 

23 

o 



6fi 

l 

s 

pa 



C5 

41 

2S 

O 

Cu 

3 

3 



u 

u 

I "H 

ts 

3 a 

g a 

ha m 

cj d 

ex *g 
a o 

*5 C5 

JD w 
W 3 

•si 

(/> *“* 
CO X. 

•g .§, 
u S 




£ 

* 3 § 

I" 3 

| 2 o 

8 I « 
g-s* 

B 



M 

o 

LO 

2 

o 



(A 

N— / 

s 



176 



Hip Problems Fear of going forward in major deci- I am in perfect balance. I move forward in 

sions. Nothing to move forward to. life with ease and with joy at every age. 




Hirsutism Anger that is covered over. The blan- I am a loving parent to myself. 

ket used is usually fear. A desire to I am covered with love and approval. 

blame. There is often an unwilling- It is safe for me to show who I am. 

ness to nurture the self. 






o 

o 

WO 



s' 

‘S' 

b 



o 

u 

b 

«o 

S 

o 

<o 

u 

<3 

CO 

t? 

'C 



^ 3 



* £ 






* 

CO 

3 



to -C 

1.5 

5 § 

to 

rC to 
■*- WO 

a s' 



£ 

o 



to 

u 

s 



to 



£ 

wo 

wo 

Si 



S - c 

v ' &o 



3 

o 

t /1 

.5 

2 

3 

3 

O 

s 

S 2 

<U 

U-4 

1-3 

*3 ^ 

l-G (J 

=r *o 

si 

O 



O 

a 



u 
c« 

,<y 

W 
2 

r§ ^ 

6 'S, 

0 3 
2 § 
« U 



CJ 

J s 

<J B 4 

•5 <« 
3 2 

<u 



T 3 
3 
ts 

E 

-2 <u 
CQ rQ 



■d 

o 

o 

60 

60 

3 



^ 3 

■S 2 

3 S6 

5 -§ 

CO </) 

2 § 

(/) 

n «« 



SB 




fij 


u 


4— 1 
4-» 


SB 


O 




EP 


w 

a 


o 


co 


<-»-t 


(J 


in 

•F< 


u 


CO 


M 




o 




<-*B 


<-w 


CO 


O 


u 


>> 




o 


CO 


■ l— “> 
CD 


•5 


,d 

H 


3 



jjf 

’t /5 

o 



o 

T 3 

■1-H 

OS 



3 

o 

>N 

(O 

C 3 



i/5 

(U u 

3 S 

cS t/i 
WO^ 
•53 Qj 

*J 

g E 

« 41 

3 ° 

<D 

0 g> 

3 2 

&J r*H 

£ 2 



3 

£ 

■g 

M 

T3 

2 

3 

1/5 

<U 

WO 

J 

<y 

P- 

u 

as 

1 > 

P-. 



•8 

l-d 

ga 

U 



w 



.3 

a 

! 

o 

33 



60 

3 

j 3 

"u 

I 



-a 

.2 v\j 

J S 

S -3 

WO W 



I 

S 



Cl) 

<D 

t/> 



1 

U 

2 

I 



177 




See: Diabetes 




■a 

§ 

■i-J 



r 

a 

£ 

i/> o 

o ■£. 
o JT' 

►c "a 

u s 

o 5> 

c p 

>— I «J 



3 

o 



.ef 

"u 

42 



u 

W) 

2 



_ef 

w 

(A 

2 

0 
2 

<u 

W) 

C 

« 

43 

u 

6JD 

1 $ 

I 

►3 o- 
S w 

£ -s 



<u 

'S 

3 

42 
u 

43 

4 -J 

^ s " 
^ (J 

■a a 

J a 

W +■» 

jn 

fc J 

> 5 

o r 



a 




178 



Hypothyroidism Giving up. Feeling hopelessly stifled. I create a new life with new rules that 

See: Thyroid totally support me. 




Ileitis (Crohn’s Fear. Worry. Not feeling good enough. I love and approve of myself. I am doing the 

Dis-ease, Regional best I can. I am wonderful. I am at peace. 

Enteritis) 



O 

s— i 

£ 



^0 



to to 


«-fl ^ 




r 


£ £ 
o ^ 


'! 1 
© "3 .. 




V 


^ to 

til s 
^>-2 


60 to ^ 

« .5 




fl 




S' U Q 




*— 


</) 

■"* 1/1 
* 1 


3! s * 

B 




1U 

« 3 


3,1 


1 s y 




0 

,g ^ 




C « 
ex, S ^ 

sx, Co 0 




to 

3 ^ 


£ 


^ to e 


to 


"t3 « 


irj to 
Sfl to 

•r-» ^ 

> s- 

s 8* 


-s -S *-H 

<S) "*** 

-S3 £ e 

U £ 6 

a 0 „ 

tO 


4-t 

O 

tO 


§ £ 

8 ^ 
.2? y 


2 2 


s ^ £ 


fl 

■< 


^ S 

«-H So 



3 

o 

■g 

o 



-c 

c 

<3 

% 

I 

f-Ci 



o 

o 

pi 

u 



&■ 



s 

4 — < 

fl 

o 

u 



2 

£ 

$ 

o 



4 s 

S 3 

I 

W 24 



u 

H 



O 

4-1 

fl 

* 1 —* 

pXS 



So 



</) 

a 

os 
<u 

E 

l-i 

<u 

4-1 

3 
o 

>> 4-1 

-O j§ 

T3 § 

QJ M 

3 | 

* S 

— 'S 

o o 
3 a 
fl (/> 
a -a 

u -5 



2 

_ <0 
5 43 
2 £ 



o 

3 



— U 

^ t« 

<u ^ 



3 

u 

J3 



O 

60 



& 

w 


a 


w 


fl 


3 




ft 


>N 


- 00 
TJ 3 


O 

fl 


M -rt 


fl 


2 3 




T3 3 


j-T 


C 


CJ 


H 60 


W) 


2 T3 
« 3 


fl 


^3 “ 


fl* 


> 60 


O 


to 3 

^ -1—4 


•fl 

M 



A g- 

3 C 

o o 



3 

o 

• H 
4-1 

o 



u 

g 

0 

1 



3 

! 

§ 

a 



i 



i 

s 

3* 

q 



CO 

fl £ 

.2 > 

§ 3 

iW tn 



179 



Inflammation Fear. Seeing red. Inflamed thinking. My thinking is peaceful, calm, 

See: “Itis” and centered. 




Influenza Response to mass negativity and I am beyond group beliefs or the calendar. I 

See: Respiratory beliefs. Fear. Belief in statistics. am free from all congestion and influence. 

Ailments 



g 

O </> 

•a £ 

■p* 

.£ ~ 

.£ e 

I' a 

O 

•2 t» 



<✓> 

o v 
a* P 
c s 





50 


b 


.2 


§ 


CO 

g 


50 


a. 


8 




JO 

'"G 


s 


£ 


53 


S 

o 

d 


50 

> 

O 


>— < 


1-0 



.3 







■“ o 


£ w 


00 


"3 ‘05 
£ m 


a 

t'i 


53 

S 

50 

> 


G 

b &- 
a iQ 


50 i-h 
.S> 


*43 ^ 


£ >A 



«> 00 
£ c 

<-> -S 
3 £ 
— Q 

1 

2 4 -J 

c s; 

* I 

c 

£ .£ 

1 

U 



•2 



<0 

4 S 

-S 

O 33 

.5 '? 

.a, * 

^ o 

§ I 

•t ^ 

*33 o 

§ •*. 

50 Cl. 

Is sfitr 

^ *5 50 

00 00 
T-O +-» 

> « »i 

O G a 
~ W C 
►— i a* o 



o 












f w 


4-» 

43 

&o 

•d 




b 

•H 


B 

.2 

PS 


d 

o 




Oh 

o 

V) 

(/i 


d 




5> 


u 


•H 

4—1 




<u 

u 


o 

>> 




bC 

g 


Id 


S-( 

CU 




2 

a. 


4-» 

d 

o 




(0 


•H 

a 


<u 

4—* 




<U 

43 


cs 




tu 


dS 


d 

QJ 




4 — > 
00 


4-1 

:d 




Oh 


4J 


O 




C 

■a 


a 


’E 


tfi 

V 

rC 


B 

P 


i> 




m 

s 


d 

b 


£ 

<u 


4-H 

OS 

AJ 


J3 


'S 


jj 

04-i 

•H 


4— » 

o 

z 


c 

1 


> 

o 

a 


bO 

d 

< 


’G 

la 


43 

4-1 


B 

£ 


d 

C« 

CO 

Uh 




S' 

*■-*1 

^5 

G I 

r-C 

~ | 
G a, 

-a Si 
iS "a 

s S 

■a § 



’a 

S - 

r 

£ 



$0 



§ 



£ 
o 

oo S 
oo i-Si 



50 



50 

C 



a 

o 

*d 

as 

d 



w 

d 

o 

*d 

& 

8 

<: 

d 

■S w 

a <n 
Td TO 

s 4 j 



in -e* 

< ? 



a 

o 

« 3 



I 



fij 

<Q <u 

t/) 

d 



180 



Itching (Pruritis) Desires that go against the grain. I am at peace just where I am. I accept my 

Unsatisfied. Remorse. Itching to good, knowing all my needs and desires 

get out or get away. will be fulfilled. 




V. 

,o 



^3 

§ 

| 

s, 

3 



8 ^ 



3 s 

« CO 
* £ 



co 



Co 

£ 

•S -« 

a § 

c co 
CJ > 

ti o 

*-« 

•£ | 
<D .trf 
bO ^3 
C C 



d* 

IS) 

I 



« s 
■ u ^ 



pi 

u 



<u 

¥ 

a. 



>/> 

2 S 
£>is 

C 

K 

u 



» I J 

w rrc 



co 

'Si 

I* 

<U 

2 

§< 



•I 5 

•2 §5 

*1 
ij 
S a 

£ 

5P 3 

§ *-< 

-e -3 

u c 

-k « c 
•« -tf § 

Ha 

-O <vi S> 

1 I ^ 

8 & s 

— Q ■£ 



■c 

a 



CO 

co 



<0 CO 

-c 

e w 
> </> 
> o 
o o 



- - ^ 

p a 






CO 

§ 1 



~ rS .s 

CO ^ ^ 

■£ B "3 

g "a ^ 
o 

315 



CO 

a 

"^"S 
g? 2 
■S s 

« o 



2 

>- 

o 

St 

I s 



& 

-3 § bio 



§< 

1 



CO 



w ° 

*3 U 

o 

O bo g 

5 2> .2 
a e *_ 
£ O ^ 

£>vSS 2 

c it? c 

<u ~ 0 

| £■ E 
S .S o 



T3 

0 

O 

u 

4 -» 

0 

o 

-s 



0 

o 

>N 



0 


bo 


0 

•p^ 

as 


d 

■ I - * 

p^5 


H 


O 


4-) 


o 


2 


CD 


cp 


u 


TJ 




fl 


p 


CCS 


O 




>s 


CD 


c/j 


bp 


3 


0 


o 


< 


•l-H 

4-1 



"d 

0 

*5? 

Cu 

13 



e g 

AJ O 

*j </> 

x 8 



'S T3 

H <D 

CCS (J 

2 g 

II 

£ £ 



aj 

E? 

£ 

H 



.a 

8 

D 



g 



g 

8 

OS 

l-i 

u 

e? 

< 



•S 2 

§ g 
■a S 

u <u 
<u > 
.53 2 

T3 S 

E3 4J 

*r-< c/) 

t/S W 
CD X 

bO *-* 
d ^ 
c« O 

<d 
c/5 
CS 
CO 



pd 

CJ 



ti 

tJ CJ 
r! 

y *S 

Ph XJ 

« a 

Pi CCS 



<D 

c« 

O 

rd 



pP 

o 



CJ 

T3 



cu 

M W 
(J V) 

b£) 

C 

CCS 



CD 

6 

<u 

(4 

4-1 

X 

w 



3 

O 

>4 

-3 

O 



% . 

£ T3 

« 3 

- “ 
4J* *TJ 

a .2 

<y 33 

5 w 

•S 33 
O 33 

6 w> 

S*.g 

l/) w 

- y 

6 « 
.2 « 
.H s 

■33 § 

(i ^ 

U V5 



c 

0 

*I*H 

t3 

1 

s 

tS 

% 



i 



<D 

0) 

V5 



4i 

i| 



1 1 

Si C 



« 

s 

I 

I 



*=s 1 



&r 

o 

£ 

W 



I 

o 



I 

<! 

CD 



2 

3 

o 

pp 

CO 

fti* 

CD 

d 



co % 



■I 



o 



<D 

>> 

w 



*d <D 

e« cJ 

M CO 






(A 

1 

1 

fe' 

■2 

2 



8 

1 

t/5 

4 

2 



181 



Lumps of undissolved anger. I dissolve all past problems with ease. 




II 

jj CS 
« 't! 

4> O 
G_| J-» 
t/> £ 
*-» CJ 

'9 | 

u d 

o S 
►> pi 

-tf 

a & 
B 3 

o g> 

LD .S 



2$ 

6 s' 

"a s 

q- .5 
S? ~ 

Jl 

.t i 2 

S ~ 



182 



Leukemia Brutally killing inspiration. “What’s I move beyond past limitations into the 

See: Blood Problems the use?” freedom of the now. It is safe to be me. 




CJ 

'So o 

§ ~ 

. 

.> ,o 
2 *“! -c 
S S g' 

>v ^ 

-H £ .ts 



§& 

^i ss 

rg S 



% ° 

I ^ 

u z3 5 
w ”t3 -Q 



J3 'B & 
u ^ £ 





<u 


a* 8 


o 


CD 

<U 


Tj 


Q, 


1 


co 


(J to 

2 


0 

3 


CO 


CO 


3 



183 



Lung Xhe ability to take in life. I take in life in perfect balance. 

— Problems Depression. Grief. Fear of taking in I have the capacity to take in the 

See: Pneumonia life. Not feeling worthy of living life fullness of life. I lovingly live life to 

fully. the fullest. 




-p 5 

<u o 


o' 


T3 ^ 
2 £ 


V 

to 


A 


VO 


C o 


£ 


i£r> S 
*w £ 
l/> 5 

^ o 
£ es- 


§ 

£ 


I S’ 

O 


2 

"3 

^3 


^ c 
^ 1 


£ 


S "3 cj 
2 SP.S 


C 

d 

na 


? 


<3 

►-H 


* -c S 




-Si S 

S £ 
B-S 

»H to 


to 

VO 

r 


I am no 
joy of b 
mind is 


’£ 

s 

£ 

a 

►-H 



cu 

^ -I 
5 -a 
1 2 
g §2 

s *=^~ 
c .2 >. 

I 3 I' 

i s-s 

-C § K 

'CJ E? ^ 

S -< •» 

a v ~ 

11 -^ 
I c 

Q .S § 



o *-* 

J'S.S 

< 3 s 



2 *s 

-a -JQ 
<u eg 

« *3 

5 pj 

rrj CD 

d </) 

•d <D 

6 <u 
m 43 

rd *“* 

^ a 

42 T3 bL 

* 2 O 
w> S 

.a s -s 

G u « 

^ > 
.1 <u O 

< 4= J 



*-* 

O 

n 


.3 

>, 


1 

u 

to 

T* 


2 


13 


d 


'vi 


d 

c /> 


d 


u 

T3 


P 


CD 

43 


< 


d 

o 


4— > 

bJO 


d 


WJ 


d 

’d 


o 


d 


u 




o 


CD 

t-t-H 


S 


bJO 


d 


c/> 


CO 




& 

T3 


■H 

<3 

-g 


M 

OS 

CD 

P-t 


d 


£ 


d 


u 


cs 


to 

»H 


to 


CD 


XJ 


00 43 




U 

< 


o 

4-> 


43 

u 



S S 



184 



Menopause Problems Fear of no longer being wanted. Fear I am balanced and peaceful in all changt 

of aging. Self-rejection. Not feeling of cycles, and I bless my body with love. 
good enough. 




Menstrual Problems Rejection of one’s femininity. Guilt, I accept my full power as a w oman 

See: Amenorrhea, fear. Belief that the genitals are sinful and accept all my bodily processes as 

Dysmenorrhea, Female or dirty. normal and natural. I love and approve 

Problems o/ myself. 



-s its, 






Oh 

60 2 
•S t 

-Si vZ. 

a ^ 


care 


J iih 

I 3 » 

l ^ 


£ a* 


2 


£ ^ 
^ 0 


a, 


c 


0 s: 


53 a 




Oh 


•2 -a 
£>» £ 
O « 

C ^ 

a jl 


« 0 

'S 6 

04 £ 


2 t* 
s ^ 

S tu 




o, <3 


> 




Sr H 


*s> O 


60 K 

‘C *> 


^ v^- 





* ~ * 
c jo 
'> £ 

5 .5 < 





O 




c 

0 




CUD 

a 


• H 
4-J 


* 


■H 

r! 


C« 

•s 


2 

t3 


•H 

4— 1 


3 


w 

4-J 


</) 


c« 


c« 

e 


CD 

43 


•c 

04 




O 


O 

J-l 

O, 


H3 

4) 


M 

OS 


O- 

OJ 

c 



TO .,-1 
L U ^ 
r! a; W 
<U (/) 

be 

<U 

H Cl (—• 



•S &f 

j 2 8 
a i £ 
§ B * 

§ *2 ,5 

913 



a jr ,3 
d £3 



185 



Mouth Represents taking in of new ideas I nourish myself with love. 

and nourishment. 




Problems Set opinions. Closed mind. Incapacity I welcome new ideas and new concepts and 

to take in new ideas. prepare them for digestion and assimilation. 



i h. 

*s & 

U , 

13 ^ 
s § 
© 

- £ 
3 ^ 



© 



-- © 

«o P 

© ■££ 
VO •*-* 

C 






§ 

7! 
3 ^ 



©* 

uo 



VO 



_ £ 

-c « 
w> h 
3 

© *© 

~ o 

s I 

|3 

hff ) © 

If 

^-2 
•r»* r ~ J . 

VO © 

§ a „ 

x © 

VJ cu 

rfr ° ' 
D3 



.d 



§ 



© 

U 

I 

3 

O 

& 

© 

3 



r 

50 



VO 

e 

© 

•42 S3 
© © 
5 ° 

g ^ 

•3 © 



g 8 

© ^ 
sx, ^ 



s' ^ 
c x 

"© o 
P •*-» 
© <u 

X ^ 
© £ 
t>o © 



Tf 

<D o 

CO 

X 13 

V+H Z3 

c 5 
o § 
u « 

„ rC 

T3 u 
O ^ 

V*H +-> 
° 60 
£ .£ 



in 

O s». 

&.J2 

73 « 
t 3 d 

CJ fR 

P W> 

|«g 
.3 a 



0 

s, 

a; 

•3 

.0 

60 

c 

■r* 4-* 
> to 

I & 

V 

^■s 

. V4_( 

P O 

•S | 

I I 

5 nd 

_H 

% £ 



VO 

</> 

X) 

■8 

+J 

1-H . • 

rt b 

1 £ 
js a 
• a 

« X 
a <u 

a ® 

1? ti 

J-i .23 
Cfl 

X 53 

s '5 
8 g 

s .§ 



VO 2 

c I' 

<U 7b 

•e -s 

aj ccs 

pH U 
X p 

<u o 



I a 



8 

§ . 



VO u 
.f-J {fi 

c /) 

^26 



w 

> 

o 



cl 

! 

O 

& 

XI 

H-l 

o 

£ 

4-» 

o 

p 



p 






o 


"p 

VO 


.a 


U 


c« 

Ph 


8 


<0 


LO 


w 


*S 

X 

o 


8 

I s 


T3 

1/5 


U 


•a .a 

V/5 O 


.3 


w 


W X 


& 


a u 


1 



I 

I 



i 

1 



s 



186 



Myalgic Encephalo- 
myelitis 

See: Epstein-Barr Virus 




Myopia Fear of the future. Not trusting I trust the process of life. I am safe. 

See: Eye Problems what is ahead. 



O 



C 


"§ 6 
§ a 

S hH 




o 2 


o' 


.2 fc 




5 '« 



^ W 

a. > m 
o g « 



r u w 
_ _ 
u 2 S 



I 

'N 

« » 



3 o 
£ 
jj u 

-a^rt 

•Sr . . o 
M >> 
ij <u 

S </> 2 

z 



187 



Represents flexibility. The ability to I am peaceful with life, 
see what’s back there. 




*3 £'•§, 

a | s 

4/5 ^ s 
►— * 5 

C « l ~ l 
'2 <« 
£ £P 



3 



£ 

£ ,£ 
« ^ 
cu <*0 



"3 

If5 
1^1 



^ '§ 
cu 



'8 



_ .2 

^ § £ 
»e Q -a 

•| ‘S'f 

^ jf> 2P 
</) V c 

— -g -g 
*J 5 "s 



rg 
£ £ 
'Z 2 

u r5 

-I * 
s 

w> o 
C u 

3S ^ 
3 * 
«« "3 

e s 

•2 "'S 
‘■5 "5 

a «o 
~ -c 



bO w 

■C 3 B3 

Si. 2 



S' 



^3 

£ 

9 



a 

u 
*1— » 
£ 
3 

E 

E 

o 

u 



■S 

^ *"50 

~ I 

& s 
e « 

0 >**H 

1 ^ 
b E 
1 1 

i § 

a 

>> .2 

s § 

6 S 

m 

*-H U 



s 

o 

u 

r K>\ ^ 

IP S 
g « 
* ^ 



£ 

V) 



nl 

3 SX, § 



■- .2 ^ 



%'Z 



vo >w 

-V c 



£ 

a 



r 



£ 

o 

E 

a 



i-l 

I- 
£ > 
3 A 
«u ^ 

J| 
£ 
3 

E 



PM ■+«» 

^3 -r- 
§ * 


>v S 

p 0 

S u 


•13 0 

r-* *1-* 

£ ss 


ft 


C 3 

"B S 


3- s' 



& 

CD 

& . 
c« O' 

lh £} 

°£ 
tj X 
-O l» 

■a *3 

4J ■'l 

1 8 
« s 
K § 

O ^Q 

*■* Zd 
c 3 
•5 ^ 
Ji g 

4J O 

es -a 



c 

OJ 

a 

w 

g 

’o 

a 

a 

« 

</) 

'S 

2 

s 

.2 u 
*■< >-* 
u 3 



« 

& 



w 



Si T3 

3 

CJ « 




i-i 

<U 

o 

43 

i/l 

3 

00 

3 

< 



s> . 

M fi 

^ .2 
« 3 

g .2 

I § 

« S 
1 E 
(2 8 



U 

tfj 

c« 

4} 

I 

.a 

o 

„<0 

"Sj 

•as 

S u 



1 

u 

Z 



4 



u 

Z 



o 

Z 



188 



Resentment and frustration and hurt I release the pattern of delay within me, and 
ego over career. I now allow success to be mine. 




£• P* 
4J CL, 
> 3 

U <2 

■fl S 



H3 

C 

« 'm 
aj 4-> 

> fl 
o <u 

60 ^ 
C TS 

'S s 

O ^ 
XI 60 
X 3 



. 5 itp 

W O ^ 
b<0 £ 

£ I'l' 

5 sS > 

1- I 

e i §■ 

•S ^ 1 

'I £ « 

^ I > 

sti 

ti ^ 
^5 </> .^S 

S £ 3 



|o a 

8 *8 ^ 

•g l Si 

5 SJ i/5 

<5 6 



189 




Paget’s Dis-ease Feeling there is no longer any founda- I know I am supported by Life in grand 

tion to build on. “Nobody cares.” and glorious ways. Life loves me and cares 

for me. 



* t 

1 S 

3 * 
a- .5 

-a ^ 
3 -2 



a p 

je 

s u . 

13 y ^ 

w a :tr> 

> © ~ 



-1 ‘H (/! 

M ^ 

o <u w 

d g g 

Si S 

S’ u I 

Pi X> 5 



<0 

-a^s 

Ph tG JS/J 

.7) ^ g 

u 5 i 
pa .5 
. . jj ^ 

jfi $ u (2 

A 

Pm 











(0 a 
■8 * 


i 


J5* a 


•a 


ts <u 


Ctf 


rt 

Pm 


s 

p- 



190 



Giving power to others, letting them I lovingly take back my power and 
take over. eliminate all interference. 




cu 

SX, 

"3 

£ 

<3 



c c 
o 
£ 



2 

C 

?* 

O 



2 

4-1 

s 

o 

u 



</5 

<U 

Tj 

<U 



<U 

G 

O 

b 

<J 

g t 

3 -g 

—I c 

pj w 
M 60 

'S .0 
C 43 
« t! 
J2 P 

TO AC 

Cl > 

u-, 5 j 



T3 

O 

O 

60 

w 

o 

e 

K | 

S Tv 
Q w* 

►* 2 

4-1 

<A 

■A § 

3 1 

i> ^ 

< 5 ^ 

^ &0 

u g 

« O 
tu 8 




TJ 

a* 



B 

3 

43 



in 

a 

ci 

3 

2 

p- 



TO 

Cl 



s-g 



>> 

</> 

a 

<u 



CJ 

X 


u 

2 


2 


*■* 

g 


w 

£ 


3 


ft. 

w 


w 


£ 

o 


<u 

u 




<L) 


s 


<U 


tO 


4-> 

to 


3 


o 

•c 


to 


■3 


<u 

to 








Cl 




Cl 










ft- 




04 





.a 
<✓> 
t o 
w <J 

s i 

o 
C 
O 

■s? 

Cm Cl 

53 Cl 
•g </i 



.9 

fi 



191 



Anger and frustration. B laming Joy now flows freely within me, 

others for the limitation and lack and 1 am at peace with life. 




Pimples Small outbursts of anger. I calm my thoughts, and I am serene. 



4 J 

U 

8 

EX, 



I 



C s' 
£ S 

o o' 

"B > 

X) p 

c e- 

<5 -a 
«j S 
a a 



u 






</> 

^ £ 

£ § 

r ^ 

-*»a 

it 



o 

§ 



B 

t-t 

c 

o 

u 



£ ^ 
g c 



s . 
4 s & 

5* 

M 

§ 8 
1 1 
f 15. 
2 ij 
■S ^ 

•*-* *^3 

1 1 
v® -« 

^—i C 

o a 
2 tS 

s e 



60 



VI 



Si 

s 

g 

Vi 

13 

e 

*3 

o' 

vi 



| * 

s, * 

s~ 

a cj 
>- •< 



60 

s 

a 

s 

rt 

£ 

4-J 

o 

z 

s' 

o 

a 

es 

I-, 



T3 

s 

w 

fc « 

a 3 “ 

3 p 



s 

u 

U 

1 

0 

o 

o 

V 

•5 

£ 

s 

u 

V) 

B 

ox 

4J 

os 



s 

o 



3 3 
o 2 
►>»« 

<** oo 

° .3 
£ a 

S« w 
w u 

& 

w 

> g> 3 

C 4—* 
W .H 3 

S3* 
^ 3 <u 

Si " 5 

g 

§ii 



c 

< 



, c« 
-z 3 <u 

3 ^ 
o o 

•pi 4-» 

o -d 

a « 

w | 

<u pP 

a « 



o 

3 



T3 

<u 

t-, 



^ a 

4J •£ 

I -a 

& B 
$ 5 
Q £ 



PE 

o 

S 

4-* 

03 

O 

4-1 

d 

<D 

Oh 

0 

"B 

c« 

(/) 

j§ 

'w 

2 

,4J 

<H-H 

Cl) 

T 3 

1 

'u 

4> 

Uh 



.a 



</f 


•? 










T 3 

I « 

£ pd 


■a 

o 

3 

3 

's' 
u o 


•a 

a 

pS 

O 

K. 


1 


§ 


pa B 




i 


F 




1 


w 3 
u > 

C /5 > 


W ■ • 

jj <u 

q eo 


•; 


i 


i 




s 


i 


c 


s 





</) 

a 

QJ 

2 

o 

1-4 

Oh 

UO 

S 

a 



0 J 



192 




Paralyzing jealousy. A desire to stop There is enough for everyone. I create my 

someone. good and my freedom with loving thoughts. 



2 

I § 

* — I 

3 T? 

-c o 
~ * 

8* ^ 



'XS 

§ 



s ~ 

8 I' 

« s^-S, 

H £ § 

•■C o 

v. to 
U O 

^ o 
Je 

- IO 



* 

o 

c 

rS£ 

VJ 



S' w ^ 
ts ^ 

E* 5 •*-» 

» u 

I ^ 

S o 

£ a 



a 

•T3 

c 



u 



c 

o 



c y 

U * 

a 



o 
^ *£> 

o 

O* fc 
« 'o' 

lag 

H Oh S 



•i-a 

■S 

7S 

u 

3 

S 

>N 



<u 

<o 



C 

o 

B* 

u 

u 

« 



it 

i. 

>3 — 
KH ^3 

8 i> 3 

O 

5 ^ 
E «u 

2 i 

a a 



c 

3 

<5J 

> 

o 



£ 

o 

ft* 

d 

£ 

o 



u 

£ 

</i 

J-H 

c « 
<D 

•t— I 

43 

</) 



43 

u 

bb 

0 

■& 

u 

M 

<U 

el 

0 



0 

»-S 

.5 <-> 

.i 8 

Si c 

M <u 

O 3 

w c 3 

(3 
o 

•H 

(A 



<u 



•a s 

O 3 

o o 

gp o 
d 



</> 

t/1 

l/l 

<D 

CJ 

8 

& 

<U 

d 



u 8 

£ ■S 

O 141 

a, o 



a 

• rH 

u 

d 

*d 

a 

(j 

0 

3 

u 

</i 

OS 

a 

<u 

■5 

a 

3 

4J 

(/) 

8 

a 

u 

a 



rj-d 

• i-^ ‘2 

J3 Sc 

B-g 

3 a 



<D 

43 



8 

3 

</> 

t/) 

<u 



d 

u — 
M -a 

C8 2 



w ^ 

<d d 



> x 

•> aj 



</) </) 

M 
OS 



* a> 



60 



2 a « 

*-< 3 i- 
Is 

3 -g .8 
u Ti 

09 



. . T-< 

2 o 



3 

P* o 

fl ^ 

Q <U 

I* 



a 

£ 



t 

Q 

75 

V) 

A 

Z 

t 

a 



3 

(A 

£ 



<U 

I 

3 

A 

+d 

(A 

O 



bO 

.3 

■a 



193 



Pruritis 




> d 






I §• 

1 8 

i’s 



itjl 


O' 

t/> 


<u 

l/> 


•2 


>1 


s 


£ 




'g 


tu 

> 

£ 


<-o 


& 






<u 

£ 


<u 

u 

u 

03 


£ 




*0 

(J 

-o 




4— 1 


cS 




If 


O 

w 


Tj 

u 


d 


<U 

p* 




o 

PS 






’2 

w 


3> 


<-M 


o 

'd 

<j 


03 

2 


ju 

3h 


d 

PS 

o 


T3 




""d 

cs 

u 

Q 

4-5 


■H 

1/5 

a 

u 

Pi 


i 

)H 

3 

o 


4-» 

o 

1-4 

cx 


2 

* 

•i-^ 

•pH 


o 

sj 

a 


3 

o 

>s 

4-* 

03 


d 

03 

M-h 

l/i 




(-t 

is 


Ch 

'u 


(-1 

£ 


2 

’2 


a 

M 

3 


c/> 

rt 

£ 


■3 

<H-H 


d 

o 

l>N 




bO 

rH 


<U 


& 


<U 

bO 


■pH 


>S 


<D 

•^H 






•§ 


-3 


•iM 


2 


■s 


pd 

C/l 


'‘5 

pQ 


£ 


*3 


pd 


W-H 


•£ 


PS 


■w 


> 


00 


3- 


GJ 


U-H 


o 




<L> 


03 




pj 


3 


<D 


o 

u 

ctf 

u 

Uh 


senses 


respon 


8 

a 

<u 

Pi 


M 

<u 

1 


SUOIS 


o 

H 

•w 

</) 

< 


t« 

w 

o, 

tft 


your n 




u 

a 

o 

EQ 



I 



a 

o 

•a 

M 

*a 

c- * 

•a t 

i! 

1 = 

O OJ 

TJ $ 

£ 



i 

. 



i 




194 




Rabies Anger. A belief that violence is the I am surrounded and indwelled with peace. 

answer. 



t-Sl 

rijg 

«S « 'a 

•gag 

Pi 



is J « 

o ts 

'5-aS 



® S S 



s 


CO 

> 

P 


CO 

&0 

oo 


! z 


a $> 




EX, 


CO 

<o 


I fc 


s ~ 


<u 

■— 4 


s- 


g 


►-H O' 


►— i 'S 



195 




J £ 

SI 

£ O 

■a,* 

11 

1* 

S tki 
</> 

v£> O 
1 ? ° 

£ ^ 

C 'J 

* 

1 S' 3 

5 rt 



£ § .§ 
^| l 

& £ W> 



o 

1-6 
c ft* 

« ^ 
60 C 

.S 3 

•S -S 

Ilf 



|.a „ 1 

c|S g» 

°fo | 
£ J jj -s 
S e I 1 

■a -a 8 £ 

tO </) PC »— < 







■a 3 


2 










1 


•S 

QJ 

£ 


-g :s 

jl 

5/5 to 


& 

u 

F cS 


1 

so 




R 


Cl 

1 


u 

+* 


U 

W 


. . 

5 w 


s 

cx 


x> 


•3 

R 


1 


1 


to 


P to 

£ 


to 


R 

trs 


« 

U 

</5 


•6 

;/) 


C /5 



196 




i-C 

R . 5 

cu 

u Sv 
? ^ 

£ D 

.. £ 

% 5 

§ •£ ^ 

tj 'o' '*-, 

a 2 
2 a i 
g. S 

.s ~ b 
> *> c 
5l i 



197 



Shingles (Varicella) Waiting for the other shoe to drop. I am relaxed and peaceful because 

Fear and tension. Too sensitive. I trust the process of life. All is well 

in my world. 




co 



r 

co 

8 * 



« ob 
st s’ 



S'g 

11 <3 

O a 
o 5 
^ §L 



£J2 

••—V 

CO o 

•4-» 

* ^ 

Co O 

■£ 

li 
§ I'-t 
II - 

3 3 £ 



u 



<o 



tO VJ 

•§3 2 

fin 



CO J-— 

S CO 

jS * 

CO v> 

15 

ft < 

>. ^ 
S' a 

2 ft 



3 -3 

-e « 



3 

§ 



ll 



11 ft 

« "§ 
& S 
o 

2 t 

a s 
~ ^ 

"a 

3 c 

*-, a 



n 

st 

£ 

« 



-3 

2 

3 

o 

1/1 

■3 

ft 

a 

op . 

ft 3 
2 2 
ts s 



11 

-a 



3 1 



H 

JU 



o’ 

</> 3 

3 ft 

^ s 

^ g> 1 
•| ^ £ 
? /) / 
'Z s 

£ 3 * 
^ a,- 
£ n v 

2 o i 
ft- S - 
^ ft- c 

bO '73 S3 

ft 2 a 
5 a o 

J ^ £? 
^0.0 



cu 

J4 

«S 

- 6 

§| 

&*. li 

5 ^3 

813 

2 § 3 

k. rt 

° M 

3 11 3 

3 as ° 

es — 1 
a -33 



I- 

a 

o 



8 « 
u ^ 



a 
o 

a « 



a a _ 

g-s-f 

^ P-* CU 
M X ^ 

Pi U 33 



-d 

oo . 

§ £ 

a r* 

fll t+H 

O .£> 
*■» 

o S3 

a > 

to w 
^ XI 

(O -*-» 



J3 



£> 

2 



c/> 
Si 

<-*-i t3 

^ ja 

^3 u 

-° 3 

< £ 



<U 

3 

O 

<u 

s 

8 

3 

O 

2 

<U 

P- 

GJ 

o 



3 

O 



<U 

</} 

o 



<D 

cu 

CD 



C/5 

GJ GJ 

§3 

PQ u 
3 

<u o 
*-» 

<J o 

S g 

m 3 

<-t-H CJ 

° 2 
op a 
a </> 

^ u 

■2 .a 

1 - 

2 g 
u & 



CO 

s 

<u 
< 
»t — * 

n 

3 

T3 

I 

.2 

)H 

3 

O 

u 

CJ 

4-* 

O 

H 

(X 



3 

ccS 

£P 

o 



u 

3 

bC 

"3 

<u 

£ 3 

5 w 

a 

- 4J 

3 a 
n 
. ^ 

CS “ 
,11 00 



ji 

11 

1 i 

< l-i 




198 



Slipped Disc Feeling totally unsupported by Life. Life supports all of my thoughts; therefore, 

Indecisive. I love and approve of myself and all is well. 




Snoring Stubborn refusal to let go of old I release all that is unlike love and joy in 

patterns. my mind. I move from the past into the new 

and fresh and vital. 



</i 


4J 


nd 


C/l 


o 

£ 


CD 

■s 


& 


c/l 

c/l 

Si 


e 


CL, 


Cfl 


X 



& 

P « 3 

Si $ £ 



S ^ 
</> £ 
•“ 2 
*i a. 



199 



Intestines, Mucus Colon 




Spinal Curvature The inability to flow with the support I release all fears. I now trust the process of 

(Scoliosis Kyphosis) of Life. Fear and trying to hold on to life. I know that life is for me. I stand 

See: Round Shoulders old ideas. Not trusting life. Lack of straight and tall with love. 

integrity. No courage of conviction. 



U 

s 

cj 



u 

u 

a 

§ . 

<u ^ 

s ^ 

~ o' 
<3 •—) 

(j "Q 

I ! 

M e 



£ 

ns 

£ 

O 

g- 

</i 

£ 

a 



s s 

i; k. 

- <£, 

Si Si 
<u G 
S -c 

s' " 
fc «j 

ts-5 

I#.* 

o’ ~ 

a ,, ■< 



V) 



£ S 

^ s 
^ « 



c 

o 

£ 

*■* *0 
o 

Jo « 

l-H 

<✓> 

8 •a 

g § 

fc bO 



3 J 

3 60 

i/i *3 
? 

£ S' 



4J 

60 

2 

T3 

d 

« 

00 

d 

S 

d 



TJ 

<u 

£ 

cS 

d 



£ 

o 

&. 

cu 

3 

l/l 



X 

u 

Eh 



3 

o 

•s 

nj 
(J 
(A 
t fi 

v 

tn 

O 

W) 

£ 

• rH 

u 

PQ 

d 

o 



<u op 
</> d 
-3 

o £ 



60 . 
d .y 
•3 i 

d 'Z 
<a d 



d 

o 

u 

2 



o 
Z 

dJ 
O 

d 

s .a 

S2 ^ 
$ £ 
y <u 

•i o 

d 
« .£ 

u y 
60 > 
d 2 
< £ 










200 



Stiff Neck Unbending bullheadedness. It is safe to see other viewpoints. 

See: Neck Problems 




,3 < 

M §» 

Sf, 

p 

o' 



s' § £ 

c £ O 
O r — 



^ & 




3 


a ^ 


e ~ 








* e* 




s 


>> c 
a 2 


bp y 

s « 




© 


<o cu 

w ts 

t/i bj 


W K- 

-c KH 






£ -s 


u ^ 
C 

da, «> 


future. 


£ 

1 
>— H 


g § 
c S 
s s 

« 5 

*H U 



■s -g <5 * & 

a a « § o 

© | ^ i D 

+3 



201 



Suicide See life only in black and white. I live in the totality of possibilities. There is 

Refusal to see another way out. always another way. I am safe. 




Swelling Being stuck in thinking. Clogged, My thoughts flow freely and easily. 

See: Edema, painful ideas. I move through ideas with ease. 

Holding Fluids 



o 1 

CO 

> 

So § 

M I: 

> e 

T 3 8 



£ <U 2 
50 5 ”5 

« -S S3 

O h ^ 



gj tn 

Q ^ l-i 

ft <D 

c Ji m 
a, *e 

<-H- r— ( O 

-3 E ° 

c J 3 

60 C8 T3 
P 4 i 3 
O u .p 

J 3 g S 

|/ 13 # 



:s 2 s 
y -§ I 

•o </> 

1 -3 -o 

ep -a 

•S t 3 

'PoP 
P " ca 

S £> .<2 

¥ 33 K> 

5 is S 
Q d P 

3 H # 



202 



Testicles Masculine principles. Masculinity. It is safe to be a man. 




Tetanus A need to release angry, festering I allow the love from my own heart to wash 

See: Lockjaw thoughts. through me and cleanse and heal every part 

of my body and my emotions. 



</> £ •— * 
bC ’r 1 

s' 1 -; * 

■“ S M 

ao B s 
.S 5 s' 
> c r 

O P >h * 
>\ VO 

5! ^ ^ 

< h-( 



1*11 

O 

I 2 

a £ « 

a 1 a 

2 £ ifi 

■g 00 & 

H ^ 

c/j -i-i 



WH a 

o y . 

-a is a 

d S E 

W w j_i 

■a & 

H op “ 
<u s o 

4-* -r-< 4-J 

12 ■*-* 

5 ,4J p 

2 n o 



203 



Thyroid Humiliation. “I never get to do what I move beyond old limitations and 

See: Goiter, I want to do. When is it going to be now allow myself to express freely 

Hyperthyroidism, my turn?” and creatively. 

Hypothyroidism 





CO 



'o' 

£ 

a 

© 

CO 

© 



CO 



f, 

c 

Si 

O 

T-O 



'o' 



S <* 

•*■* p 

co y 

•S I 

s* •% 

Z -Bb 



s 

V 

^3 

*> & 
C q 
*> 8 
£ ^ 
Q « 

£ I 

© *3 

^ K-h 

£ CO 

1 £ 

* s’ 
2 £ 
42 



*XS 
O 
O 
bo £ 



co 

■+-» 

§ 

u 



^ s 

CO 7* 

<*i Co 

l'^ 

'o'S 

<u TS 
> ~ 
B g 
a S 

§- 

T3 

g 
a 

co 

> 

© 



© 

2 

A. 






>N 

43 

T3 

1) 

43 

u 

W 

CS 

£ 

.r 

V 

rO 



I 

w 

CL) 

M-t 

* B 

© QJ 
CCS rj 
40 **3 

tU O 



4) 

■3 

I ■ 

b « 

S 2 

-* s 

° I 

z £ 

ril 



.3 

u 

o .y 
Z 9 
3 * 
^ 2 
« s 

Pd .5 



&> 

-5 

S-t— r 

o 

</) 

•H 

a 

u 

t3 

(I 

O 

(3 



u 

43 



C 

<u 



C S 

& 3 
y a 
05 iE 



u 

■S 

CL) 

4-* 

t/> 

3 

2 S' 

I'? 
^ I 

t £ 

t/i o 

8 g 

c/> b 

40 P 
& £ 
a, « 



<u 



CO 



C*i Q* 



T3 

s 

(55 

a 

o 

■ H 

o 

B 

V 

cj 

</) 

M 

& £ 
£ *? 

« i 

<u JJ 

Ul, u 



u 

W3 

P 

CD 

i/i £> 

8 pc 

J 3 

(/) j3 

«3 bO 

'3 3 

tn O 

r- 45 



S'U 



<a 



®P ‘S 

C (A 
T3 W 

<g $ 

•3 o 



a 

•9 

I 

I 



I 

(S 



f2 



do 

o 

IS) 



O' t« 

w| 

40 -P 

LO H 



•a 

(A 

P 



& 

I 



204 



Tumors Nursing old hurts and shocks. I lovingly release the past and turn my 

Building remorse. attention to this new day. All is well. 




Ulcers Fear. A strong belief that you are not I love and approve of myself. I am at peace. 

See: Heartburn, good enough. What is eating away at I am calm. All is well. 

Peptic Ulcer, Stomach you? 

Problems 






I 

se 

u 

P 

o 



vn 

a *0 



« * p* 

•2 S 

g s 

u *-< 
& S 
£ .2 
■ 5 * 

I 8 



« ;s 

Cl'S 
2 ts 
rS w 

(U « 

a 2 
S « 







sx« 






Cp 








s 




s&» 






tn 








?► 

2 


A 

*T3 


§ 


Cl, 


O 




& 


F& 


;> 


a 




o 




s 




c 

<3 


.5 


•s 




4J 

s 

O 


L- 




! 




-C 


§ 


|f0 


*-* 




§ 


s 




u 




o 



« * 
P « 



£ 



<S) 



>- 

,o 



§ 



O 




*1—4 

</) 




rtf 

6J 




o 

Ph 


</} 

1-1 






a 


<U 


.a 




o 


43 

4-* 


P-l 




<u 


O 


bJO 




■4— * 


b0 


P 

CJ 




4-1 

« 


P 

•a 


CQ 




4^ 


P 

cs 










a 




us 


P3 


K 

O 




P 

c/i 


>4 


"-P 

O 




P 


<U 

> 


B 




fcri 




V 




o 


c« 


S' 


W 

d 


nd 

<u 


1-4 

O 


b0 


P 


</> 


X 


0 


t/> 


< 


3 


•H 

Pl, 


<u 



S' 

t 






4—) 


4-J 










<L) 

l-i 


’3 




CJ 


bo 




<-t-H 






O 


CIS 




U 


g 




s 

o 


CJ 

cn 


<-h— < 

1—4 


43 


4J 


<u 


4) 

•S 


4-) 

CCS 

a 


6J 

43 


a 


>— 4 

US 


4-> 

bJO 


CJ 


4-4 


P 


<u 


c« 




in 


3 


Cl) 

)h 


<u 


.a 


P4 


biD 


p 


U 


P 


p 


P* 


< 


Pl. 



1 

a 

p 



S3 

•a 

U 

3 

$ 



ti 

St 



U 

‘fi 

P 



If) 

<U 

> 



cj 

cj 



42 

o 



u <a 



2 



S-g 

w e 

LLi Q 

ii 

4J 4| 
in J 



205 



Varicella 

See: Shingles 




Varicose Veins Standing in a situation you hate. I stand in truth and live and move in joy. I 

Discouragement. Feeling overworked love Life, and circulate freely. 
and overburdened. 



c 

o 

^ & 

I' a 

U £ 

o o 



co 

s 

CO 

£ 

§ 

CO 

£ 



Co 

£ 

O 



i8i 


SO 

S' £ 

"-> <u 
> > 


ia 1 


l*! 

13 q ^ 
-S' ?S m 


O ,0 

"3 " H 


•5 « bO-j 


£>~ 
•5 ?s 
> e 
o c 


o s o ® 


Q r e-* P 

•“"■H C/J +-J OO 


d -S 



e 

<3 

nT co 

§ 

ci ^ 

o' ,c 

fc "S 

+~1 Co 

u 
CO 

C 

c 
o 
u 



£ 

;> 

co 






s ° 

oj i— ^ 

If 

.2 'S 

d <y 

g, S 
S fc 
£ l-fl 
■S g g 

« oo 3 
Z (u w> 

■ jd C, 

.3 

^ *o S3 
3 cs 5 
bO _£3 

H l ^ < 
rt Uh . 

a jg & 

s 3 a 

to PQ T3 



'M 

3 

0 

■A 

1 

o 

q3 

>> 

o 



° B 
^ s 
y a 
J iS 



id, ^ 

£?g 
2 & 
y 

O *d 

4-» 

<u 
T* 

3 

O 



o 
u 
d 
o 

>> o 

S z 

JU 

I" 

o 
u 

.£ 

w o 

fli o 

£ z 



ob 

d 

5b 

d 

o 



i 



f 

- -a 

fa i2 



► Oj 

o &> 
S to 

£ 



.2 



u 

I 



a 

1c 

o 
3 

o -a 

~ & 

to i/T 

S « 

< & 

jj s 

to £ 



<Si 

S 

.9 

N 

.a 

0 e 

OJO <u 
•rt w 

ts <■/> 

I 



1 § 
1 | 

. QJ 

*d <u 

2 in 

£ 



& 



206 



Vomiting Violent rejection of ideas. Fear of I digest life safely and joyously. Only good 

the new. comes to me and through me. 




Vnlva Represents vulnerability. It is safe to be vulnerable. 



u C 

3 'a. v 

5 .2 

g I 

£ u 

6 |~ 2 

I — f Q 



Tj 


<U 

c/l 

4) 

T3 

S 






CJ 


4-» 


X 


a 


4-J 


QJi 


4-» 

rt 


e 

<u 


4-1 


> 

o 



207 



Yeast Infections Denying your own needs. Not I now choose to support myself in 

See: Candida, Thrush supporting yourself. loving, joyous ways. 




In the infinity of life where I cm, 
ah is perfect, whole, and complete. 

I accept health as the natural state of my Being. 

I now consciously release any mental patterns within me 
that could express as dis-ease in any way. 

I love and approve of myself. 

I love and approve of my body. 

I feed it nourishing foods and beverages. 

I exercise it in ways that are fun. 

I recognize my body as a womfrous and magnificent machine, 
and I feel privileged to live in it. 

I love lots of energy. 

All is well in my world. 





(Diagram by Meganne Forbes) 




NEW THOUGHT PATTERNS 



FACE: (Acne): I love and accept myself 
where I am right now. I am wonderful. 

BRAIN: All of life is change. My growth pat- 
terns are ever new. 

SINUSES: I am one with all of life. No one 
has the power to irritate me unless I allow 
it. Peace, harmony. I deny any beliefs in cal- 
endars. 

EYES: I am free. 1 look ahead freely because 
life is eternal and filled with joy. 

I see with loving eyes. No one can ever hurt 
me. 

THROAT: I can speak for myself. 1 express 
myself freely. I am creative. I speak with 
love. 

LUNGS: The breath of life flows easily 
through me. (Bronchitis): Peace. No one can 
irritate me. (Asthma): I am free to take 
charge of my life. 

HEART: Joy, love, peace. I joyfully accept 
life. 

LIVER: I let go of everything that I no longer 
need. My consciousness is now cleansed 
and my concepts are fresh, new, and vital. 

LARGE INTESTINES: I am free; I release 
the past. Life flows easily through me. 
(Hemorrhoids): I release all pressure and 
burdens. 1 live in the joyous present. 

GENITALS: (Impotence): Power, 1 allow the 
full potential of my sexual principle to oper- 
ate with ease and joy. I lovingly and joyous- 
ly accept my sexuality. There is no guilt and 
no punishment. 

KNEE: Forgiveness, tolerance, compassion. 
I move forward without hesitation. 

SKIN: I get attention in positive ways. I am 
secure. No one threatens my individuality. 1 
am at peace. The world is safe and friendly. 
I release all anger and resentment. Whatever 
I need will always be here. I accept my good 
without guilt. I am peaceful with all the lit- 
tle things in life. 

BACK: Life itself supports me. I trust the 
universe. I freely give love and trust. Lower 
back: I trust the universe. I am courageous 
and independent. 



HEAD: Peace, love, joy, relaxation. I relax 
into the flow of life and let life flow through 
me with ease. 

EARS: I listen to God. I hear the joys of life. 

1 am part of life. 1 listen with love. 

MOUTH: I am a decisive person. I follow 
through. I welcome new ideas and new con- 
cepts. 

NECK: I am flexible. 1 welcome other view- 
points. 

SHOULDERS: (Bursitis): I release anger in 
harmless ways. Love releases and relaxes. 
Life is joyous and free; all that I accept is 
good. 

HANDS: I handle all ideas with love and 
ease. 

FINGERS: I relax, knowing the wisdom of 
life takes care of all details. 

STOMACH: I assimilate new ideas easily. 
Life agrees with me; nothing can irritate me. 
I am calm. 

KIDNEYS: I seek only good everywhere. 
Right action is taking place. 1 am fulfilled. 

BLADDER: I release the old and welcome 
the new. 

PELVIS: (Vaginitis); Forms and channels 
may change but love is never lost. 
(Menstrual): 1 am balanced in all changes of 
cycles. I bless my body with love. All parts 
of my body are beautiful. 

HIP: I joyfully move forward supported and 
sustained by the power of life. I move into 
my greater good. I am secure. (Arthritis): 
Love. Forgiveness. I let others be them- 
selves and I am free. 

GLANDS: I am in total balance. My system 
is in order. I love life and circulate freely. 

FEET: 1 stand in truth. I move forward with 
joy. I have spiritual understanding. 



New thought patterns (positive affirmations) can heal and relax your body. 



211 




Part IV 

CONCLUSION 





Chapter Sixteen 



MY STORY 



“We are all one.” 



“Will you tell me a little about your childhood, briefly.” This is a 
question I have asked so many clients. It’s not that I need to hear all 
the details, but I want to get a general pattern of where they are com- 
ing from. If they have problems now, the patterns that created them 
began a long time ago. 

When I was a little girl of 18 months, I experienced my parents 
divorcing. I don’t remember that as being so bad. What I do remem- 
ber with horror is when my mother went to work as a live-in domes- 
tic and boarded me out. The story goes that I cried nonstop for three 
weeks. The people taking care of me couldn’t handle that, and my 
mother was forced to take me back and make other arrangements. 
How she managed as a single parent brings my admiration today. 
Then, however, all 1 knew and cared about was that I was not getting 
all the loving attention I once had. 

I have never been able to determine if my mother loved my step- 
father or whether she just married him in order to provide a home 
for us. But it was not a good move. This man had been brought up 
in Europe in a heavy Germanic home with much brutality, and he 
had never learned any other way to manage a family. My mother 
became pregnant with my sister, and then the 1930s Depression 
descended upon us, and we found ourselves stuck in a home of vio- 
lence. I was five years old. 



215 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



To add to the scenario, it was just about this time that a neighbor 
an old wino, as I remember it, raped me. The doctor’s examination 
is still vivid in my mind, as was the court case in which I was the star 
witness. The man was sentenced to 15 years in prison. 1 was told 
repeatedly that, “It was your fault,” so I spent many years fearing 
that when he was released he would come and get me for being so 
terrible as to put him in jail. 

Most of my childhood was spent enduring both physical and sex- 
ual abuse, with a lot of hard labor thrown in. My self-image became 
lower and lower, and few things seemed to go right for me. I began 
to express this pattern in the outside world. 

There was an incident in the fourth grade that was so typical of 
what my life was like. We were having a party at school one day, and 
there were several cakes to share. Most of the children in this school 
except for me were from comfortable middle-class families. I was 
poorly dressed, with a funny bowl haircut, high-topped black shoes, 
and I smelled from the raw garlic I had to eat every day to “keep the 
worms away.” We never had cake. We couldn’t afford it. There was 
an old neighbor woman who gave me ten cents every week, and a 
dollar on my birthday and at Christmas. The ten cents went into the 
family budget, and the dollar bought my underwear for the year at 
the dime store. 

So, this day we were having the party at school, and there was so 
much cake that, as they were cutting it, some of the kids who could 
have cake almost every day were getting two or three pieces. When 
the teacher finally got around to me (and of course I was last), there 
was no cake left. Not one piece. 

I see clearly now that it was my “already confirmed belief’ that I 
was worthless and did not DESERVE anything that put me at the end 
of the line with no cake. It was MY pattern. THEY were only being a 
mirror for my beliefs. 

When I was 15, 1 could not take the sexual abuse any longer, and 
I ran away from home and from school. The job I found as a wait- 
ress in a diner seemed so much easier than the heavy yard work I had 
to do at home. 



216 




My Story 



Being starved for love and affection and having the lowest of self- 
esteem, I willingly gave my body to whoever was kind to me; and 
just after my 16th birthday, I gave birth to a baby girl. I felt it was 
impossible to keep her; however, I was able to find her a good, lov- 
ing home. I found a childless couple who longed for a baby. I lived 
in their home for the last four months, and when I went to the hos- 
pital, I had the child in their name. 

Under such circumstances, 1 never experienced the joys of moth- 
erhood, only the loss and guilt and shame. Then it was only a shame- 
ful time to get over with as soon as possible. 1 only remember her big 
toes, which were unusual, like mine. If we ever meet, I will know for 
sure if I see her toes. I left when the child was five days old. 

I immediately went back home and said to my mother who had 
continued to be a victim, “Come on, you don’t have to take this any 
longer. I’m getting you out of here.” She came with me, leaving my 
ten-year-old sister, who had always been Daddy’s darling, to stay 
with her father. 

After helping my mother get a job as a domestic in a small hotel 
and settling her into an apartment where she was free and comfort- 
able, I felt my obligations were over. I left for Chicago with a girl- 
friend to stay a month — and did not return for over 30 years. 

In those early days, the violence I experienced as a child, com- 
bined with the sense of worthlessness I developed along the way, 
attracted men into my life who mistreated me and often beat me. I 
could have spent the rest of my life berating men, and I probably 
would still be having the same experiences. Gradually, however, 
through positive work experiences, my self-esteem grew, and those 
kind of men began to leave my life. They no longer fit my old pat- 
tern of unconsciously believing I deserved abuse. I do not condone 
their behavior, but if it were not “my pattern,” they would not have 
been attracted to me. Now, a man who abuses women does not even 
know I exist. Our patterns no longer attract. 

After a few years in Chicago doing rather menial work, I went to 
New York and was fortunate enough to become a high-fashion 
model. Yet, even modeling for the big designers did not help my self- 



217 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



esteem very much. It only gave me more ways to find fault with 
myself. I refused to recognize my own beauty. 

I was in the fashion industry for many years. I met and married a 
wonderful, educated English gentleman. We traveled the world, met 
royalty, and even had dinner at the White House. Though I was a 
model and had a wonderful husband, my self-esteem still remained 
low until years later when I began the inner work. 

One day after 14 years of marriage, my husband announced his 
desire to marry another, just when I was beginning to believe that 
good things can last. Yes, I was crushed. But time passes, and I lived 
on. I could feel my life changing, and a numerologist one spring con- 
firmed it by telling me that in the fall a small event would occur that 
would change my life. 

It was so small that 1 didn’t notice it until several months later. 
Quite by chance, I had gone to a meeting at the Church of Religious 
Science in New York City. While their message was new to me, some- 
thing within me said, “Pay attention,” and so I did. I not only went 
to the Sunday services, but I began to take their weekly classes. The 
beauty and fashion world was losing its interest to me. How many 
years could I remain concerned with my waist measurement or the 
shape of my eyebrows? From a high school dropout who never stud- 
ied anything, I now became a voracious student, devouring every- 
thing I could lay my hands on that pertained to metaphysics and 
healing. 

The Church of Religious Science became a new home for me. 
Even though most of my life was going on as usual, this new course 
of study began to take up more and more of my time. The next thing 
I knew, it was three years later, and I was eligible to apply to become 
one of the Church’s licensed practitioners. I passed the test, and 
that’s where I began, as a church counselor, many years ago. 

It was a small beginning. During this time I became a Transcen- 
dental Meditator. My church was not giving the Ministerial Training 
Program for another year, so I decided to do something special for 
myself. I went to college for six months — MIU, Maharishis Inter- 
national University — in Fairfield, Iowa. 



218 




My Story 



It was the perfect place for me at that time. In the freshman year, 
every Monday morning we began a new subject, things I had only 
heard of, such as biology, chemistry, and even the theory of rela- 
tivity. Every Saturday morning there was a test. Sunday was free, and 
Monday morning we began anew. 

There were none of the distractions so typical of my life in New 
York City. After dinner we all went to our rooms to study. I was the 
oldest kid on campus and loved every moment of it. No smoking, 
drinking, or drugs were allowed, and we meditated four times a day. 
The day I left, I thought I would collapse from the cigarette smoke 
in the airport. 

Back to New York I went to resume my life. Soon I began taking 
the Ministerial Training Program. I became very active in the church 
and in its social activities. I began speaking at their noon meetings 
and seeing clients. This quickly blossomed into a full-time career. 
Out of the work I was doing, I was inspired to put together the little 
book Heal Your Body , which began as a simple list of metaphysical 
causations for physical illnesses in the body. I began to lecture and 
travel and hold small classes. 

Then one day I was diagnosed as having cancer. 

With my background of being raped at five and having been a bat- 
tered child, it was no wonder I manifested cancer in the vaginal area. 

Like anyone else who has just been told they have cancer, I went 
into total panic. Yet because of all my work with clients, I knew that 
mental healing worked, and here I was being given a chance to prove 
it to myself. After all, I had written the book on mental patterns, and 
I knew cancer was a dis-ease of deep resentment that has been held 
for a long time until it literally eats away at the body. 1 had been 
refusing to be willing to dissolve all the anger and resentment at 
“them” over my childhood. There was no time to waste; I had a lot 
of work to do. 

The word incurable, which is so frightening to so many people, 
means to me that this particular condition cannot be cured by any 
outer means and that we must go within to find the cure. If I had an 
operation to get rid of the cancer and did not clear the mental pat- 



219 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



tern that created it, then the doctors would just keep cutting Louise 
until there was no more Louise to cut. I didn’t like that idea. 

If I had the operation to remove the cancerous growth and also 
cleared the mental pattern that was causing the cancer, then it would 
not return. If cancer or any other illness returns, I do not believe it 
is because they did not “get it all out,” but rather that the patient has 
made no mental change. He or she just recreates the same illness, 
perhaps in a different part of the body. 

1 also believe that if I could clear the mental pattern that created 
this cancer, then I would not even need the operation. So I bargained 
for time, and the doctors grudgingly gave me three months when I 
said I did not have the money. 

I immediately took responsibility for my own healing. I read and 
investigated everything I could find on alternative ways to assist my 
healing process. 

1 went to several health food stores and bought every book they 
had on the subject of cancer. I went to the library and did more read- 
ing. I checked out foot reflexology and colon therapy and thought 
they both would be beneficial to me. I seemed to be led to exactly 
the right people. After reading about foot reflexology, I wanted to 
find a practitioner. I attended a lecture, and while I usually sat in the 
front row, this night I was compelled to sit in the back. Within a 
minute, a man came and sat beside me and — guess what? He was a 
foot reflexologist who visited the home. He came to me three times 
a week for two months and was a great help. 

I knew I also had to love myself a great deal more than I was. 
There was little love expressed in my childhood, and no one had 
made it okay for me to feel good about myself. I had adopted “their” 
attitudes of continually picking on and criticizing me, which had 
become second nature. 

I had come to the realization through my work with the Church 
that it was okay and even essential for me to love and approve of 
myself. Yet 1 kept putting it off — rather like the diet you will always 
start tomorrow. But 1 could no longer put it off. At first it was very 
difficult for me to do things like stand in front of the mirror and say 



220 




My Story 



things like, “Louise, I love you. I really love you.” However, as 1 per- 
sisted, 1 found that several situations came up in my life where in the 
past I would have berated myself, and now, because of the mirror 
exercise and other work, 1 was not doing so. I was making some 
progress. 

I knew I had to clear the patterns of resentment I had been hold- 
ing since childhood. It was imperative for me to let go of the blame. 

Yes, I had had a very difficult childhood with a lot of abuse — 
mental, physical, and sexual. But that was many years ago, and it was 
no excuse for the way I was treating myself now. I was literally eat- 
ing my body with cancerous growth because 1 had not forgiven. 

It was time for me to go beyond the incidents themselves and to 
begin to UNDERSTAND what types of experiences could have creat- 
ed people who would treat a child that way. 

With the help of a good therapist, I expressed all the old, bottled- 
up anger by beating pillows and howling with rage. This made me 
feel cleaner. Then I began to piece together the scraps of stories my 
parents had told me of their own childhoods. I started to see a larg- 
er picture of their lives. With my growing understanding, and from 
an adult viewpoint, I began to have compassion for their pain; and 
the blame slowly began to dissolve. 

In addition, I hunted for a good nutritionist to help me cleanse 
and detoxify my body from all the junky foods I had eaten over the 
years. 1 learned that junky foods accumulate and create a toxic body. 
Junky thoughts accumulate and create toxic conditions in the mind. 
I was given a very strict diet with lots of green vegetables and not 
much else. I even had colonics three times a week for the first 
month. 

1 did not have an operation — however, as a result of all the thor- 
ough mental and physical cleansing, six months after my diagnosis I 
was able to get the medical profession to agree with what I already 
knew — that I no longer had even a trace of cancer! Now I knew 
from personal experience that DIS-EASE CAN BE HEALED, IF WE 
ARE WILLING TO CHANGE THE WAY WE THINK AND BELIEVE 
AND ACT! 



221 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



Sometimes what seems to be a big tragedy turns out to become the 
greatest good in our lives. I learned so much from that experience 
and I came to value life in a new way. I began to look at what was 
really important to me, and I made a decision finally to leave the 
treeless city of New York and its extreme weather. Some of my clients 
insisted they would “die” if I left them, and I assured them 1 would 
be back twice a year to check on their progress, and telephones can 
reach everywhere. So I closed my business and took a leisurely train 
trip to California, deciding to use Los Angeles as a starting point. 

Even though I had been bom here many years before, I knew 
almost no one anymore except for my mother and sister, who both 
now lived on the outskirts about an hour away. We have never been 
a close family nor an open one, but still I was unpleasantly surprised 
to learn that my mother had been blind for a few years, and no one 
had bothered to tell me. My sister was too “busyish” to see me, so 1 
let her be and began to set up my new life. 

My little book Heal Your Body opened many doors for me. I began 
to go to every New Age type of meeting I could find. I would intro- 
duce myself, and when appropriate, give out a copy of the little 
book. For the first six months, I went to the beach a lot, knowing 
that when 1 became busy, there would be less time for such leisurely 
pursuits. Slowly, the clients appeared. I was asked to speak here and 
there, and things began to come together as Los Angeles welcomed 
me. Within a couple of years, I was able to move into a lovely home. 

My new lifestyle in Los Angeles was a large jump in consciousness 
from my early upbringing. Things were going smoothly, indeed. 
How swiftly our lives can change completely. 

One night I received a phone call from my sister, the first call in 
two years. She told me that our mother, now 90, blind, and almost 
deaf, had fallen and broken her back. In one moment my mother 
went from being a strong, independent woman to being a helpless 
child in pain. 

She broke her back and also broke open the wall of secrecy 
around my sister. Finally, we were all beginning to communicate. I 
discovered that my sister also had a severe back problem that 



222 




My Story 



impaired her sitting and walking and which was very painful. She 
suffered in silence, and though she looked anorexic, her husband did 
not know she was ill. 

After spending a month in the hospital, my mother was ready to 
go home. But in no way could she take care of herself, so she came 
to live with me. 

Though trusting in the process of life, 1 did not know how I could 
handle it all, so I said to God, “Okay, I will take care of her, but you 
have to give me help, and you have to provide the money!” 

It was quite an adjustment for both of us. She arrived on a Satur- 
day; and the following Friday, I had to go to San Francisco for four 
days. I could not leave her alone, and I had to go. I said, “God, you 
handle this. I have to have the right person to help us before I leave.” 

On the following Thursday, the perfect person had “appeared,” 
and moved in to organize my home for my mother and me. It was 
another confirmation of one of my basic beliefs: “Whatever I need to 
know is revealed to me, and whatever I need comes to me in Divine 
right order.” 

I realized it was lesson time for me once again. Here was an 
opportunity to clean up a lot of that garbage from childhood. 

My mother had not been able to protect me when 1 was a child; 
however, I could and would take care of her now. Between my moth- 
er and my sister, a new whole adventure began. 

To give my sister the help she asked for presented another chal- 
lenge. I learned that when I had rescued my mother so many years 
ago, my stepfather then turned his rage and pain against my sister, 
and it was her turn to be brutalized. 

I realized that what started out to be a physical problem was then 
greatly exaggerated by fear and tension, plus the belief that no one 
could help her. So here was Louise, not wanting to be a rescuer and 
yet wanting to give her sister an opportunity to choose wellness at 
this point in her life. 

Slowly the unraveling began, and now, today, it’s still going on. We 
progress step by step as I provide an atmosphere of safety while we 
explore various avenues of healing. 



223 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



My mother,* on the other hand, responds very well. She exercis- 
es as best she can four times a day. Her body gets stronger and more 
flexible. I took her to get a hearing aid, and she became more inter- 
ested in life. In spite of her Christian Science beliefs, I persuaded her 
to have a cataract removed from one eye. What a joy for her to begin 
to see again and for us to see the world through her eyes. She is so 
pleased to read again. 

My mother and I began to find time to sit and talk to each other 
in ways we had never done before. A new understanding developed 
between us. Today, we both become freer as we cry and laugh and 
hug together. Sometimes she pushes my buttons, which only tells me 
there is something further for me to clear. 



* * * 



*My mother left the planet peacefully several years ago. I miss her 
and love her. We completed all we could together, and now we are 
both free. 



224 




Afterword. 



I t’s hard to believe that 20 years have gone by since 1 first wrote 
You Can Heal Your Life. During that time, this book has been translat- 
ed into 29 different languages, is available in more than 35 different 
countries, and has sold more than 30 million copies throughout the world. 

When I first wrote this book, my original dream was to go beyond 
the students in my workshops and help as many other people as 
possible change their lives for the better. Little did 1 know how the 
Universe would fulfill this dream or how many people would really be 
helped. From the moment this book was written, it seems that Life has 
said, “This book must go out; it must be available worldwide.” I think 
that the success of You Can Heal Your Life is due to the fact that I have 
the ability to help people change and learn to love themselves without 
laying guilt on them. I also think that the simplicity in the message 
helps it transfer between many different cultures with success. 

At this year’s trade book fair in Los Angeles (Book Expo America 
2003), I met a man who told me that I’m a best-selling author in his 
bookstore in Kathmandu, Nepal. I keep his business card on my desk 
as a reminder of the extraordinary connection I have with people 
everywhere. And today, the Internet brings me masses of mail from all 
over the globe each month. Many of these letters are from young 
people who find my message just as relevant and healing as those who 
first read it 20 years ago. 

So much has happened over the years: For six and a half years, 

I spent time working with people with AIDS. It began with six men in 



225 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



my living room one evening; within a couple of years, it had grown to 
a weekly meeting of more than 800 people. We called it The Hayride 
This was such a growing period for me — my heart was constantly being 
stretched. I’ll remember those experiences for the rest of my life. The 
Hayride Support Group still exists in West Hollywood, although I’m no 
longer connected with it, since I moved out of town a few years ago. 

Sometime after I wrote this book, several of the Hayride people 
went on the Oprah show with me to put out positive messages about 
AIDS. The same week, I appeared on Donahue with Dr. Bemie Siegel. 
You Can Heal Your Life hit the bestseller list and stayed there for 13 
weeks. I was in constant awe of how Life was moving me in so many 
directions. I was working ten-hour days, seven days a week for a long 
period of time. 

Life goes in cycles. There’s a time to do something, and then there’s a 
time to move on ... . 

For the past ten years, I’ve had the pleasure of spending much 
of my time in my garden creating compost, feeding the earth, and 
growing most of the food I eat. In the next few months, I’ll be moving 
into a new condominium with a terrace. Now my gardening will be 
different, yet I’ll keep my hands in the soil. 

Painting has been on my wish list for a long time, and I’ve dabbled 
a bit over the years and taken a few classes. A couple of years ago, I 
came across a wonderful art teacher who accepted me as her only 
student. To my amazement, her name is very similar to mine: Lynn 
Hays. Lynn has stretched me far beyond what I thought I was capable 
of painting, and she won’t allow me to paint anything small. I’m now 
doing oils on a large scale these days and feeling very fulfilled. 

I’ve rescued several animals over the last 20 years. I told each one, 
“1 can’t do anything about your past; however, I promise you that you 
will live a life of love and joy for the rest of your days." They all lived 
out their allotted times and have now moved on. My intuition tells me 
not to have any more animals for the time being, as I need to be free to 
move around the world more. 

In the early days, there were few people doing the kind of wor 
was, and I felt the need to be everywhere, teaching constantly. Now 



226 




Afterword 



there are so many good teachers out there that I no longer feel the pres- 
sure to personally rescue everyone. I’ve written more than 20 books and 
have produced numerous audios and videos. My advice columns, Ask 
Louise and Dear Louise, appear in more than 50 different New Age pub- 
lications (as well as in my own bimonthly newsletter). There’s plenty of 
material for people to study. I’ve cut down my speaking schedule to 
almost nothing. I work behind the scenes now, supporting new authors 
and talented teachers. 

I’m blessed to have excellent people running Hay House for me. 
Reid Tracy, president and CEO, and vice president Ron Tillinghast are 
both invaluable to me, as is Shelley Anderson, my personal assistant. I 
love all the people who work in editorial, the art department, publicity, 
customer service, marketing, sales, accounting, and the warehouse. 
They all make up the wonderful mix of Hay House family members that 
makes us all so successful. I believe we shall continue to bring our brand 
of information to the world for a long time — blessing and prospering all 
those we touch. 

When I first printed You Can Heal Your Life, I started Hay House so 
I could self-publish my book, since I believed at the time that no other 
company would have released it back then when these thoughts were 
considered so radical. At that time, there wasn’t even a self-help section 
in the bookstore. Today, more than half of the New York Times best- 
sellers are self-help books. How the consciousness of people has 
changed! It feels good to know that I was one of the early pioneers in 
spreading the message that we all do have the ability to improve the 
quality of our lives. 

Hay House has since grown to be one of the world’s top publishers 
in the self-help and mind/body/spirit fields. Now we even have offices 
in Sydney, Australia; London, England; Johannesburg, South Africa; 
Vancouver, Canada; and Hong Kong. All these changes have been 
beyond my wildest dreams. In the beginning, all I wanted to do was 
help the people I couldn’t see personally. I truly believe that the growth 
of Hay House was supervised by the Universe itself: When we choose 
a new book to publish, it’s always something that helps others 



227 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



improve themselves. I love supporting promising authors who are 
helping to change people’s lives! 

An astrologer once told me that when I was bom, there was a con- 
figuration in my chart that showed 1 would be helping many, many 
people on a one-to-one basis. Of course, 77 years ago, tape recorders 
had not been invented, so that configuration seemed unlikely. 
However, because of the miracle of technology, the sound of my voice 
on tape (and now on CD) accompanies thousands of people to bed 
each night. My voice can put anyone to sleep! 

As a result, many people whom I’ve never met feel that they know 
me because we spend so many intimate moments together. One of the 
wonderful things about what I do is that it gives me the opportunity to 
be greeted with love almost everywhere I go. People feel that I’m an old 
friend who has helped them through many a sticky moment. 

No matter what age we are, we can always let go of some more 
garbage and break a new barrier. Let me share my latest breakthrough 
with you. 

Last year when I turned 76, I decided to do something I’d never 
done before because I was always afraid to: I took up ballroom danc- 
ing. I’d wanted to dance since I was a child, but I could never get up 
the courage. For many years I’d said, “In the next lifetime, I will be a 
dancer. It’s too late to do it now.” Talk about a negative affirmation. 

Then one day last fall, I passed a dance studio that advertised: “We 
teach you to dance one step at a time.” And I thought. One step at a time 
. . . maybe I could do that. And the thought that followed was: I’m going 
to live quite a few more years. Why am I waiting for the next lifetime?! And 
so a new era began for me. 

The first two months were absolute hell. I dreaded the lesson each 
Wednesday afternoon but knew I had to go through with it. I think I held 
my breath the entire first lesson. Every little-kid piece of garbage I still 
carried within me came up: embarrassment, humiliation, shame it all 
flooded through my body. I couldn’t even find an affirmation to fix it. 

One of my teachers finally said, “Louise, I can see the fear in your 
eyes. Where does it come from?” I couldn’t answer the question right 
then. But later that night I really thought about it, and the answer was 



228 




Afterword 



that there was a part of me that was convinced I would be hit in the 
face if I did it “wrong.” That was a real revelation to me. The little kid 
inside was terrified of being slapped, and 1 was 76 years old! 

At the next lesson, when 1 told the teacher my answer, her eyes 
filled with tears. And that was the breakthrough for me. All those feel- 
ings began to subside, and I could concentrate on my steps. It’s now 
almost a year later, and 1 take three private lessons a week and four 
group lessons. It’s even become fun for me. So, my dears, if 1 can do it, 
so can you. It’s never too late to learn something new. 

The older I get, the more important my health becomes to me. I eat 
simply: protein, vegetables, and some fruit. I’m not a vegetarian now, 
although I have been; however, I do eat lots of vegetables. I no longer 
eat wheat, dairy, sugar, com, citrus, beans, or caffeine, except on very 
rare occasions. I also exercise more than I used to. The practice of yoga 
entered my life when I was 75, and I’ve been doing it three times a 
week. I’ve become more limber than I was as a child. In addition, I take 
Pilates classes and walk for an hour three times a week. All of this helps 
keep my body in good shape. 

Who knows what the next 20 years have in store for me? I have some 
ideas; however, life knows so much more than I do. One of the next sub- 
jects I would like to teach is how to make dying a joyful experience. We 
have so many negative beliefs about death, yet it’s a normal and natural 
process. We’re all bom and we all die. Why are we so frightened of death? 
We weren’t frightened to be bom. My feelings at the moment are that if 
we learn to live a joyous life, then we’ll automatically have a joyous death. 
I’ll explore this more, and then I’ll share my findings with you. 

All is well. Life is good. 




February 2004 




229 




In the infinity of life where I cm, 
ah is perfect, whole, and. complete. 

Each one of us, myself included, experiences the richness 
and fullness of life in ways that are meaningful to us. 

I now look at the past with love and choose 
to learn from my old experiences. 

There is no right or wrong, nor good or bad. 

The past is over and done. 

There is only the experience of the moment. 

I love myself for bringing myself 
through this past into this present moment. 

I share what and who I am, 
for I know we are all one in Spirit. 

All is well in my world. 




TCWp at tfw canker of ttnj fcituj Imr* 
m|wita~ <wef 

fj nowolfiw fe^lSoc b>junu £ ffc^ujjace-r 3t Jills nj»j {watt, ttyi 
|bo<^,«ttj mindinuj a>nseioM 5 ne$f, tmj vem 6cin<j, and radiatey out i 
y fbmtne in aiC cfix^tuxtifaruT returns £ me muffipCcd. !3fie more 
rW I «s< andaiwe-; tfie hmk I jrjrwj 
lendfes-lC tise^ww mal^y CttJw 1 , * 5 

I expression tni^ innerjo^ . 1 |oue- ^Tnustjf^^ ihtrtfax, I ta\e-. 



) responds b me unm uibrant neaftb and enerqvp JGsvc nupeq ^ 
ttte^a^J^ovideJar mpefj^a coi^xrtabfc TuW, one suit juCr all 
i itwj needs and isaj$asiu*t-~b 6e- in. IJllPtfSe moms witfi tfic 
I oibratiarL. of Jpbeyo tfiat alP wfio enter, mvjseff incjudecC toilPjeef^ 
f Hiisijwe and. & nourLsiwd («4 it. J £w nttpdj* tfunejow,! axni^ 
L at ajo6 Htdt 3 traQ enjou amna, one Kiatioes «uj aeatioe-'b$nts 
|mdal»^kie 5 , wetl^ waBT andJarjxopHe- Mtat 1 ipoe and 
flQw.w, andearrana a^oocfinoome-rT iooe nwsdr mwfixer'y^/ 
^ J £efeuv and Miin^in ajpemej uxuj b al(j)a>p^je>r il^runo toar| 
fiatwfick J^ive out mtuinsbmemKffepBed.^o^ attract ^oin^ 
I jxop&'in rm< wot&JotKwm are- a mirraropwhat Jam. 'J jooe 




HoCistic Heating Recommendations 

BODY 



Nutrition 

Diet, Food Combining, Macrobiotic, 

Natural Herbs, Vitamins, Bach Flower Remedies, 
Homeopathy. 

Exercise 

Yoga, Trampoline, Walking, Dance, Cycling, 
Tai-Chi, Martial Arts, Swimming, Sports, etc. 



Alternative Therapies 

Acupuncture, Acupressure, Colon Therapy, 
Reflexology, Radionics, Chromotherapy, 

Massage & Body Work 

Alexander, Bioenergetics, Touch for Health, 
Feldenkrais, Deep Tissue Work, Rolfing, 
Polarity, Trager, Reiki. 



Relaxation Techniques 

Systematic Desensitization, Deep Breathing, 
Biofeedback, Sauna, Water Therapy (Hot Tub), 
Slant Board, Music. 



Books 

Food Is Your Best Medicine - Bieler 
Love Your Body - Hay 
Healthy Healing - Linda Page Rector 
Herbally Yours - Royal 
Getting Well Again - Simonton 

MIND 

Affirmations, Mental Imagery, Guided Imagery, 
Meditation, Loving the Self. 

Psychological Techniques 

Gestalt, Hypnosis, NLP, Focusing, T.A., Rebirthing, 
Dream Work, Psychodrama, Past-Life Regression, Jung 
Humanistic Psychotherapies, Astrology, Art Therapy. 



232 




Recommendations 



Groups 

Insight, Loving Relationship Training, 

ARAS, Ken Keyes Groups, All 12-Step Programs, 
Aids Project, Rebirthing. 



Books 

Visualization - Bry 

The Power of Affirmations - Fankhauser 

Creative Visualization - Gawain 

Focusing - Gendlin 

Heal Your Body - Hay 

Love Is Letting Go of Fear - Jampolsky 

Teach Only Love - Jampolsky 

A Conscious Person’s Guide to Relationships - Keyes 

The Superbeings - Price 

Celebration of Breath - Ray 

Loving Relationships - Ray 

SPIRIT 

Asking for What You Want, Forgiveness, 

Receiving (Allowing the Presence of God to Enter), 
Accepting, Surrendering. 



Spiritual Group Work 

M.S.I.A., T.M., Siddah Foundation, 
Self-Realization, Religious Science, 
Unity. 



Books 

Your Needs Met - Addington 

Ageless Body, Timeless Mind - Chopra 

Real Magic - Dyer 

Any book by Emmet Fox 

Course in Miracles - Foundation for Inner Peace 

The Science of Mind - Holmes 

The Mutant Message Down Under - Morgan 

The Manifestation Process - Price 

The Celestine Prophecy - Redfield 

The Nature of Personal Reality - Roberts 

Autobiography of a Yogi - Yogananda 

Adventures of a Psychic - Browne 



233 




Self-Hefy Resources 

The following list of resources can be used to access information on a variety of 
issues. The addresses and telephone numbers listed are for the national headquar- 
ters; look in your local yellow pages under “Community Services” for resources clos- 
er to your area. 

In addition to the following groups, other self-help organizations may be avail- 
able in your area to assist your healing and recovery for a particular life crisis not 
listed here. Consult your telephone directory, call a counseling center or help line 
near you, or contact: 



AIDS 

CDC National AIDS Hotline 

(800) 342-2437 

Caring for Babies with AIDS 

P.O. Box 35135 
Los Angeles, CA 90035 
(323) 931-9828 

www.caring4babieswithaids.org 

Children with AIDS (CWA) 

Project of America 

P.O. Box 23778 

Tempe, AZ 85285 

(800) 866- AIDS (24-hour hotline) 

www.aidskids.org 

Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS 

Foundation 

2950 31st St., #125 

Santa Monica, CA 90405 

(888) 499-HOPE (4673) 

www.pedaids.org 

The Names Project Foundation — 
AIDS Memorial Quilt 

P.O. Box 5552 
Atlanta, GA 31107 
(800) 872-6263 
www.aidsquilt.org 



Project Inform 

205 13th St., Ste. 2001 

San Francisco, CA 94103 

(800) 822-7422 (treatment hotline) 

(415) 558-9051 (S.F. and Int’l) 
www.projectinform.org 
Spanish HIV/STD/AIDS Hotline 
(800) 344-7432 

TTY (Hearing Impaired) AIDS Hotline 
(CDC National HIV/AIDS) 

(800) 243-7889 

* * * 

ALCOHOL ABUSE 

Al-Anon Family Group Headquarters 

1600 Corporate Landing Parkway 
Virginia Beach, VA 23454-5617 
(888) 4 AL-ANON 
www.al-anon.alateen.org 
Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) 

General Service Office 
475 Riverside Dr., 11th Floor 
New York, NY 10115 
(212) 870-3400 

www.alcoholics-anonymous.org 
Children of Alcoholics Foundation 
164 W. 74th St. 

New York, NY 10023 



234 




Resources 



(800) 359-COAF 
www.coaf.org 

Mothers Against Drunk Driving 
(MADD) 

P.O. Box 541688 

Dallas, TX 75354 

(800) GET-MADD (438-6233) 

www.madd.org 

National Association of Children 
of Alcoholics (NACoA) 

11426 Rockville Pike, #100 
Rockville, MD 20852 
(301)468-0985 
(888) 554-2627 
www.nacoa.net 

National Clearinghouse for Alcohol 
and Drug Information (NCADI) 

P.O. Box 2345 
Rockville, MD 20847 
(800) 729-6686 
www.health.org 

National Council on Alcoholism 
and Drug Dependence (NCADD) 

20 Exchange PL, Ste. 2902 
New York, NY 10005 
(212) 269-7797 

(800) NCA-CALL (24-hour hotline) 

www.ncadd.org 

Women for Sobriety 

P.O. Box 618 

Quakertown, PA 18951 

(215) 536-8026 

www.womenforsobriety.org 

* * * 

ALZHEIMER’S DISEASE 
Alzheimer’s Association 
919 N. Michigan Ave., Ste. 1100 
Chicago, IL 606 11 



(800) 272-3900 
www.alz.org 

Alzheimer’s Disease Education 
and Referral Center 

P.O. Box 8250 

Silver Spring, MD 20907 

(800) 438-4380 

adear@alzheimers.org 

Eldercare Locator 

330 Independence Ave., SW 

Washington, DC 20201 

(800)677-1116 

www.eldercare.gov 

* * * 

CANCER 

National Cancer Institute 
(800) 4-CANCER 
www.nci.nih.gov 

* * * 

CHILDREN’S ISSUES 

Child Molestation 

Childhelp USA/Child Abuse Hotline 

15757 N. 78th St. 

Scottsdale, AZ 85260 
(800) 422-4453 
www.childhelpusa.org 
Prevent Child Abuse America 
200 South Michigan Ave., 17th Floor 
Chicago, IL 60604 
(312) 663-3520 
www.preventchildabuse.org 

Crisis Intervention 

Girls and Boys Town National Hotline 

(800) 448-3000 
www.boystown.org 



235 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



Children of the Night 

14530 Sylvan St. 

Van Nuys.CA 91411 
(800)551-1300 
www.childrenofthenight.org 
Covenant House Hotline 
(800) 999-9999 
www.covenanthouse.org 
Kid Save Line 
(800) 543-7283 
www.kidspeace.org 
Youth Nineline 

(referrals for parents/teens about drugs, 
homelessness, runaways) 

(800) 999-9999 

Missing Children 

Missing Children . . . HELP Center 
410 Ware Blvd., Ste. 710 
Tampa, FL 33619 
(800) USA-KIDS 
www.800usakids.org 
National Center for Missing 
& Exploited Children 
699 Prince St. 

Alexandria, VA 22314 

(800) 843-5678 (24-hour hotline) 

www.missingkids.org 

Children with Serious Illnesses 

Brass Ring Society 
National Headquarters 

551 E. Semoran Blvd., Ste. E-5 
Fern Park, FL 32730 
(407) 339-6188 
(800) 666- WISH 
www.worldramp.net/brassring 



Make-a-Wish Foundation 

3550 N. Central Ave., Ste. 300 
Phoenix, AZ 85012 
(800) 722-WISH (9474) 
www.wish.org 

* * * 

CO-DEPENDENCY 
Co-Dependents Anonymous 

P.O. Box 33577 
Phoenix, AZ 85067 
(602) 277-7991 
www.codependents.org 

* * * 

DEATH/GRIEVING/SUICIDE 
A ARP Grief and Loss Programs 
(202) 434-2260 
(800) 424-3410 
www.aarp.org/griefandloss 
Grief Recovery Institute 
P.O. Box 6061-382 
Sherman Oaks, CA 91413 
(818) 907-9600 
www/grief-recovery.com 
National Hospice and 
Palliative Care Organization 
1700 Diagonal Rd., Ste. 300 
Alexandria, VA 22314 
(703) 837-1500 
www.nhpco.org 

Parents of Murdered Children 

(recovering from violent death 
of friend or family member) 

100 E 8th St., Ste. B41 
Cincinnati, OH 45202 
(513) 721-5683 



236 




Resources 



(888) 818-POMC 
www.pomc.com 

SIDS (Sudden Infant Death Syndrome) 
Alliance 

1314 Bedford Ave., Ste. 210 

Baltimore, MD 21208 

(800) 221-7437 

www.sidsalliance.org 

Suicide Awareness Voices of Education 

(SAVE) 

Minneapolis, MN 55424 
(952) 946-7998 

Suicide National Hotline 

(800) 784-2433 

* * * 

DEBTS 

Consumer Credit Counseling Service 
Credit Referral 

(800) 388-CCCS 
Debtors Anonymous 

General Service Office 
P.O. Box 920888 
Needham, M A 02492-0009 
(781) 453-2743 
www.debtorsanonymous.org 

* * * 

DIABETES 

American Diabetes Association 

(800) 342-2383 
www.diabetes.org 

* * * 

DOMESTIC VIOLENCE 

National Coalition Against Domestic 

Violence 

P.O. Box 18749 

Denver, CO 80218 



(303) 831-9251 
www.ncadv.org 

National Domestic Violence Hotline 
P.O. Box 161810 
Austin, TX 78716 
(800) 799-SAFE (24-hour hotline) 

(800) 787-3224 (TTY) 
www.ndvh.org 

* * * 

DRUG ABUSE 

Cocaine Anonymous National 

Referral Line 

(800) 347-8998 

National Helpline of Phoenix House 

(cocaine abuse hotline) 

(800) 262-2463 
(800) COCAINE 
www.drughelp.org 

National Institute of Drug Abuse (NIDA) 

6001 Executive Blvd., Rm. 5213 

Bethesda, MD 20892-9561 

Parklawn Building 

(301) 443-6245 (for information) 

(800)662-4357 (for help) 

www.nida.nih.gov 

World Service Office, Inc. (CA) 

3740 Overland Ave., Ste. C 
Los Angeles, CA 90034-6337 
(310)559-5833 

* * * 

EATING DISORDERS 
Overeaters Anonymous 

National Office 
P.O. Box 44020 
Rio Rancho, NM 87174-4020 
(505) 891-2664 

www.overeatersanonymous.org 



237 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



* * * 

GAMBLING 
Gamblers Anonymous 

International Service Office 
P.O. Box 17173 
Los Angeles, CA 90017 
(213) 386-8789 
www.gamblersanonymous.org 

* * * 

HEALTH ISSUES 

American Chronic Pain Association 

P.O. Box 850 

Rocklin, CA 95677 

(916) 632-0922 

www.theacpa.org 

American Holistic Health Association 

P.O. Box 17400 

Anaheim, CA 92817 

(714) 779-6152 

www.ahha.org 

The Chopra Center at 

La Casta Resort and Spa 

Deepak Chopra, M.D. 

2013 Costa Del Mar 
Carlsbad, CA 92009 
(760) 931-7524 
www.chopra.com 
The Fetzer Institute 
9292 West KLAve. 

Kalamazoo, MI 49009 
(616) 375-2000 
www.fetzer.org 

Hippocrates Health Institute 

(A favorite annual retreat for Louise Hay) 
1443 Palmdale Court 
West Palm Beach, FL 33411 



(800) 842-2125 
www.hippocratesinst.com 
Hospicelink 
190 W. Brook Rd. 

Essex, CT 06426 
(800) 331-1620 
Institute for Noetic Sciences 
101 San Antonio Rd. 

Petaluma, CA 94952 
(707) 775-3500 
www.noetic.org 

The Mind-Body Medical Institute 

110 Francis St., Ste. 1A 
Boston, MA 02215 
(617) 632-9530 (press 1) 
www.mbmi.org 

National Health Information Center 

P.O. Box 1133 

Washington, DC 20013-1133 
(800) 336-4797 
www.health.gov/NHIC 
Optimum Health Institute 
(Louise loves this place!) 

6970 Central Ave. 

Lemon Grove, CA 91945 

(619) 464-3346 

www.optimumhealth.org 

Preventive Medicine Research Institute 

Dean Omish, M.D. 

900 Bridgeway, Ste. 2 
Sausalito, CA 94965 
(415) 332-2525 
www.pmri.org 

* * * 

HOUSING RESOURCES 
Acorn 

(nonprofit network of 



238 




Resources 



low- and moderate-income housing) 
739 8th St., S.E. 

Washington, DC 20003 
(202) 547-9292 

* * * 

IMPOTENCE 

Impotence Institute of America 

8201 Corporate Dr., Ste. 320 
Landover, MD 20715 
(800) 669-1603 
www.impotenceworld.org 

* * * 

MENTAL HEALTH 
American Psychiatric Association 
of America 

1400 “K” St. NW 
Washington, D.C. 20005 
(888) 357-7924 
www.psych.org 

Anxiety Disorders Association 
of America 

11900 Parklawn Dr., Ste. 100 
Rockville, MD 20852 
(301)231-9350 
www.adaa.org 

The Help Center of the American 

Psychological Association 

(800) 964-2000 

www.helping.apa.org 

The International Society 

for Mental Health Online 

www.ismho.org 

Knowledge Exchange Network 
www.mentalhealth.org 
National Center for Post- 
Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) 



(802) 296-5132 
www.ncptsd.org 

National Alliance for the Mentally OI 

2107 Wilson Blvd., Ste. 300 
Arlington, VA 22201 
(800) 950-6264 
www.nami.org 
National Depressive and 
Manic-Depressive Association 
730 N. Franklin St., Ste. 501 
Chicago, IL 60610 
(800) 826-3632 
www.ndmda.org 

National Institute of Mental Health 

6001 Executive Blvd. 

Room 8184, MSC 9663 
Bethesda, MD 20892 
(301)443-4513 
(301) 443-8431 (TTY) 
www.nimh.nih.gov 

* * * 

PET BEREAVEMENT 
Bide-A-Wee Foundation 

410 E. 38th St. 

New York, NY 10016 
(212) 532-6395 
Grief Recovery Hotline 
(800) 445-4808 

Holistic Animal Consulting Centre 

29 Lyman Ave. 

Staten Island, NY 10305 
(718) 720-5548 

* * * 

RAPE/SEXUAL ISSUES 
Rape, Abuse, and Incest National 
Network 



239 




(800) 656-4673 
www.rainn.org 
SafePlace 
P.O. Box 19454 
Austin, TX 78760 
(512) 440-7273 

National Council on Sexual Addictions 
and Compulsivity 

P.O. Box 725544 
Atlanta, GA 3 1139 
(770) 541-9912 
www.ncsac.org 

Sexually Transmitted Disease Referral 
(800) 227-8922 

* * * 

SMOKING 

Nicotine Anonymous World Services 
419 Main St., PMB #370 
Huntington Beach, CA 92648 
(415) 750-0328 
www.nicotine-anonymous.org 

* * * 

STRESS REDUCTION 
The Biofeedback & 

Psychophysiology Clinic 
The Menninger Clinic 
P.O. Box 829 
Topeka, KS 66601-0829 
(800) 351-9058 
www.menninger.edu 
New York Open Center 
(In-depth workshops to 
invigorate the spirit) 

83 Spring St. 

New York, NY 10012 

(212)219-2527 

www.opencenter.org 



Omega Institute 

(a healing, spiritual retreat community) 
150 Lake Dr. 

Rhinebeck, NY 12572-3212 
(845) 266-4444 (info) 

(800) 944-1001 (to enroll) 
www.eomega.org 
The Stress Reduction Clinic 
Center for Mindfulness 
University of Massachusetts 
Medical Center 
55 Lake Ave. North 
Worcester, MA 01655 
(508) 856-2656 

* * * 

TEEN HELP 

ADOL: Adolescent Directory Online 

Includes information on eating disorders, 

depression, and teen pregnancy. 

www.education.indiana.edu/cas/ 

adol/adol.html 

Al-Anon/Alateen 

1600 Corporate Landing Parkway 

Virginia Beach, VA 23454-5617 

(888) 425-2666 

(888) 4AL-ANON 

www.al-anon.alateen.org 

Focus Adolescent Services: 

Eating Disorders 
(877) 362-8727 

www.focusas.com/EatingDisorders.html 

Future Point 

A nonprofit organization that offers 
message boards and chat rooms to 
empower teens in the academic world 
and beyond. 
www.futurepoint.org 



240 




Resources 



Kids in TVouble Help Page 

Child abuse, depression, suicide, 
and runaway resources, with links 
and hotline numbers. 
www.geocities.com/ 

EnchantedForest/29 10 
Planned Parenthood 
810 Seventh Ave. 

New York, NY 10019 
(212) 541-7800 
(800) 230-PLAN 
www.plannedparenthood.org 
SafeTeens.com 

Provides lessons on online safety and 
privacy; also has resources for homework 
and fun on the Web. 
www.safeteens.com 

TeenCentral.net 

This site is written by and about teens. 

Includes celebrity stories, real-teen tales, 

an anonymous help-line, and crisis 

counseling. 

www.teencentral.net 

TeenOutReach.com 

Includes all kinds of information geared 

at teens, from sports to entertainment to 

help with drugs and eating disorders. 

www.teenoutreach.com 



Just for Kids Hotline 

(888) 594-5437 

(888) 594- KIDS 

National Child Abuse Hotline 

(800) 792-5200 

National Runaway Hotline 

(800) 621-4000 

National Youth Crisis Hotline 
(800) 448-4663 
(800) HIT HOME 
Suicide Prevention Hotline 

(800) 827-7571 



Hotlines for Teenagers 

Girls and Boys Town National Hotline 

(800) 448-3000 

Childhelp National Child Abuse 
Hotline/Voices for Children 

(800) 422-4453 
(800) 4ACHELD 



241 





I have long believed: “Everything I need to know is revealed to 
me.” “Everything I need comes to me.” “All is well in my life.” There 
is no new knowledge. All is ancient and infinite. It is my joy and 
pleasure to gather together wisdom and knowledge for the benefit of 
those on the healing pathway. 1 dedicate this offering to all of you 
who have taught me what 1 know: to my many clients, to my friends 
in the field, to my teachers, and to the Divine Infinite Intelligence for 
channeling through me that which others need to hear. 




O CU 2rz : 




242 




INDEX 



A 

Cv'b W S t’ 1 .. 

abdominal cramps, 146 
abscess, 146 
abundance, 120-21 
accidents, 136, 146 
aches, 146 
acne, 146, 211 
actualizations, 83 
acupuncture, 83 
addictions, 146 
Addison’s dis-ease, 146 
adenoids, 147 
adrenal problems, 147 
affirmations, 51-54, 76, 81-83, 
89, 91, 106, 110, 113-14, 
123, 141 

aging, 20, 41-42, 49, 57, 60-61, 
68-70, 115, 119, 124, 126, 
128, 133-36, 147 
AIDS, 133-34, 147 
alcoholism, 147 
allergies, 147 
Alzheimer’s dis-ease, 148 
amenorrhea, 148 
amnesia, 148 

amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 
(Lou Gehrig’s Dis-ease), 148 
anemia, 129, 148, 198 
anger, 136, 221 
angina, 129 
ankle, the, 136, 148 
anorectal bleeding, 148 
anorexia, 137, 149 
anus, 131, 149 
anxiety, 149 
apathy, 150 
appendicitis, 150 
appetite, 150 



arms, the, 118, 127, 150 
arteries, 150 

arteriosclerosis, 137, 150 
arthritis, 137, 151, 211 
Ask Louise, 111 
asthma, 137-38, 151, 211 
athlete’s foot, 151 
awareness, 49-50 

B , 

V> CM~P Cxy f >y _ 

back, the, 127-28, 151-52*? 211 
bad breath, 152 
balance, loss of, 152 
baldness, 7, 124, 152 
Barker, Dr. Raymond Charles, 38 
bedwetting, 152 
belching, 153 

beliefs, 1, 4-5, 26-27, 31, 33-38, 
52, 92 

Bell’s Palsy, 153 
bills, 116 
birth defects, 153 
bites, 153 
blackheads, 153 
bladder problems, 131-32, 154, 
211 

blaming others, 3, 6, 29 
bleeding, 154 
bleeding gums, 154 
blisters, 154 
blood, 154 
blood clots, 139 
blood pressure, 154 
blood problems, 139, 155 
body, the, 82, 123-142 
body odor, 155 
boils, 138, 155 
bone marrow, 155 



243 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



bone problems, 156 
bones, 155 
bowels, 156 

brain, the, 139, 156, 211 
brain tumor, 156 
breasts, 129, 156-57 
breath, 128, 157 
breathing problems, 157 
Bright’s dis-ease, 157 
bronchitis, 157, 211 
bruises, 157 
bulimia, 137, 157 
bunions, 158 
burns, 138, 158 
bursitis, 158, 211 
buttocks, 158 

c 

callouses, 158 
cancer, 138, 158, 219-21 
candidiasis, 159 
canker sores, 159 
carbuncle, 159 
car sickness, 159 
cataracts, 159 
cellulite, 159 
cerebral palsy, 160 
chakra, fifth, 126 
change, 41-46, 63-73, 81, 106, 
126-27 

childhood, 28, 34-36, 61, 87, 
100-01, 129 

childhood dis-eases, 160 
chills, 160 
cholesterol, 160 

Church of Religious Science, 83, 
218, 220 
cigarettes, 57, 64 
circulation, 161 
colds, 161 
cold sores, 161 
colic, 161 



colitis, 161 j < - 

colon, the, 135, 161 
coma, 162 
comedones, 162 
congestion, 162 
conjunctivitis, 162 
constipation, 162 
corns, 162 

coronary thrombosis, 162 
coughs, 163 

Course in Miracles, 8, 70 
Cousins, Norman, 94 
cramps, 163 

criticism, 6, 9, 77 \ 

croup, 163 
crying, 163 

Cushing’s Dis-ease, 163 
cuts, 138, 163 
cysts, 163 
cystic fibrosis, 163 
cystitis, 164 

D 

tfU: m-m q a \T~ ci^Li 

deafness, 124, 164 
Dear Louise, 227 
death, 164 
dementia, 164 
denial, 54 
depression, 164 
deserving, 114, 216 
diabetes, 164 
diarrhea, 164 
diets, 21, 44 
discipline, 57 

dis-ease, 8, 95, 123, 133, 138, 

219 

Divine Intelligence, 110 
dizziness, 165 
doctors, 140-41, 226 
Donahue, 225 
dream state, 95 
dry eye, 165 

^ 'f * K n ruii i fa 
hsr ' ^ .,u, ' 



244 




Index 



dysentery, 165 
dysmenorrhea, 165 

E 

ears, 124, 165-66, 211 
Earth, 131 
ecchymoses, 166 
eczema, 166 
edema, 166 
elbow, 166 

Elder of Excellence, 226 
emphysema, 128, 166 
emotions, 69, 127 
endometriosis, 166 
energy, mental, 38 
enuresis (bedwetting), 167 
epilepsy, 167 
Epstein-Barr virus, 167 
exercise, 83, 89 
exotropia, 167 
eyes, 125, 167-68, 211 

F 

face, 125, 168, 211 
failure, 109-11 
fainting, 168 
fat, 57, 139, 169 
fatigue, 169 

fear, 6-7, 17-18, 35, 37, 54, 61, 
70, 124, 130, 132, 135, 140 
feelings, 5, 17, 35, 61, 82, 101 
feet, 7, 136, 170, 211 
female problems, 170 
fevers, 170 
fibroid tumors, 170 
finances, 13, 128 
fingers, 127, 131-32, 170-71, 
211 

fistula, 171 
flatulence, 171 
flu, 171 



food, 21, 44, 82, 89-91, 221 

food poisoning, 171 

foot problems, 171 

foot reflexology, 220 

forgiveness, 7-8, 70-72, 95, 211 

Fox, Emmet, 70 

friends, 56 

frigidity, 132, 172 

fungus, 172 

furuncle, 172 

G 

gallstones, 172 
gangrene, 172 
gas pains, 172 
gastritis, 172 
gays, 133-34 

genitals, 130-32, 172-73, 211J..I d.uJ 

glands, 173, 211 

God, 131, 211, 223 

goiter, 173 

gonorrhea, 173 

gout, 173 

gray hair, 174 

growths, 174 

guilt, 6, 134, 139 

gum problems, 174 

s > ,• * i .Vjw ( 



habits, 65-66 

hair, 123-24, 152 

halitosis, 174 

hands, 127, 174, 211 

hay fever, 174 

Hay House, 226 

Hayride, the, 225 

head, the, 123-24, 211 

headaches, 125, 174 

Heal Your Body, 123, 145, 219, 222 

heart, 129, 175, 211 

heartburn, 175 



245 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



hemorrhoids, 175, 211 
hepatitis, 176 
herbs, 82-83 
hernia, 176 
herpes, 133, 176 
heterosexuals, 133 
hip problems, 176, 211 
hirsutism, 177 
Hitler, Adolf, 106 
hives, 177 

Hodgkin’s Dis-ease, 20, 177 
Holistic philosophy, 82-84 
homeopathy, 82 
Huntington’s Dis-ease, 177 
hyperactitivy, 177 
hyperglycemia, 178 
hypertension, 178 
hyperventilation, 178 
hypoglycemia, 178 
hypothyroidism, 178 

I 

Ike, Reverend, 120 
ileitis, 179 
imagery, 89 
impotence, 132, 179 
incontinence, 179 
incurable, 179, 219 
indigestion, 179 
infection, 179 
inflammation, 138, 179 
influenza, 180 
ingrown toenail, 180 
injuries, 180 
insanity, 180 
insomnia, 180 
intestines, 180, 211 
itching, 180 



J 

jaundice, 181 
jaw problems, 181 
joints, 181 

K 

keratitis, 181 

kidney problems, 181, 211 
knee, 135, 182, 211 
knowledge, 94, 238 

L 

laryngitis, 126, 182 
laughter, 94, 139 
left side of body, 182 
legs, 135, 182 
leprosy, 182 
leukemia, 182 
leukorrhea, 183 
limitations, 93 
liver, 183, 211 
lockjaw, 183 

Lou Gehrig’s Dis-ease, 183 
love, 17, 70, 73, 100, 105-07, 
211 

lump in throat, 183 
lungs, 128, 183, 211 
lupus, 184 

lymph problems, 184 

M 

Maharishi’s International 
University, 218 
malaria, 184 
massage, 83 
mastitis, 184 
mastoiditis, 184 
masturbation, 125 



246 




Index 



meditation, 82-83, 90 

menopause, 184 

menstrual problems, 185, 211 

metaphysics, 83, 218-19 

migraine, 125, 185 

mind, the, 65, 77-78, 82 

mirror, 19-23, 45-46, 56-57, 82 

miscarriage, 185 

money, 106, 113-121, 128 

mononucleosis, 185 

Mother Teresa, 106 

motion sickness, 185 

mouth, 185-86, 211 

mucus colon, 186 

multiple sclerosis, 186 

muscles, 186 

muscular dystrophy, 186 

myopia, 187 

N 

nails, 187 
narcolepsy, 187 
nausea, 187 
nearsightedness, 187 
neck, 126, 187-88, 211 
negativity, 27, 61, 75, 139 
nerves, 188 

nervous breakdown, 188 
neuralgia, 188 
New Age, 140, 222, 227 
New Thought Patterns, 211 
nodules, 188 
nose, 125, 189 
numbness, 189 
nutrition, 44, 82, 221 

o 

Oprah , 225 
osteomyelitis, 189 
osteoporosis, 189 



ovaries, 189 

overweight, 21, 138, 189 

P 

\ r- - , 

pain, 139, 190 
palsy, 190 
pancreas, 190 
pancreatitis, 190 
paralysis, 190 
parasites, 190 

parents, 3-4, 29-30, 73, 99, 139, 
215-17 

Parkinson’s dis-ease, 191 
past, the, 7, 61, 69, 141 
patterns, 6, 41, 57, 95, 216-17, 
219, 221 
pelvis, 211 
penis, 131 
peptic ulcer, 191 
petit mal, 191 
Pfeiffer’s Dis-ease, 191 
phlebitis, 191 
piles, 192 
pimples, 192 
pink eye, 192 
pituitary gland, 192 
plantar wart, 192 
pneumonia, 192 
poison ivy, 192 
polio, 193 
post-nasal drip, 193 
power, 4, 17, 36-37, 141 
premenstrual syndrome (PMS), 
132-33, 193 

Probable Mental Patterns, list of, 
123, 145 

pr ocrastina tion, 59 
prosperity, 107, 113-121 
prostate, 131, 193 
psoriasis, 194 
pubic bone, 194 
pyorrhea, 194 
P 

i>i> 



247 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



Q 

quinsy, 194 

R 

rabies, 195 ^ . . 

rage, 223 '#><** 1 

rash, 195 
Ray, Sondra, 99 
rebellion, 136 
rebirthing, 83, 99 
rectum, 131, 195 
regressions, 83 

relationships, 13, 63-64, 99-101, 
127, 141 

relaxation, 67, 89 
releasing, 7, 58, 63, 68, 70, 125, 
135, 141, 145 
Religious Science, 83 
- resentment, 6, 26, 59, 70-71, 95, 
117, 129, 138, 221 
resistance, 49, 51, 54-56 
respect, 106, 132, 134 
respiratory ailments, 195 
responsibility, 29, 50 
revenge, 37, 71 
rheumatism, 195 
riches, 110 
rickets, 195 
right side of body, 195 
ringworm, 196 
root canal, 196 
round shoulders, 196 

s 

sadness, 70 
sagging lines, 196 
salary, 119 
salt, 44 

Satir, Virginia, 126, 140 



scabies, 196 
scalp, the, 124 
school, 30-31, 38 
sciatica, 196 
Science of Mind, 227 
scleroderma, 196 
scoliosis, 197 
scratches, 197 
seasickness, 197 
security, 38 

self-acceptance, 9, 77-79, 137 
self-approval, 9, 77, 137 
self concepts, 53 
self-criticism, 60-61, 77, 138 
self-esteem, 38, 134, 216-17 
self-hatred, 5-6 

self-love, 22, 25-26, 77, 93, 125 
Self-Realization Fellowship, 83 
self-worth, 31, 38, 59, 79, 133 
senility, 197 
sexuality, 127, 130-32 
shins, 197 
shingles, 197 

“should” as a damaging word, 
15-16, 22 

shoulders, 198, 211 

sickle cell anemia, 198 

Siddha Foundation, 83 

Siegel, Bemie, 225 

Simon, Neil, 95 

sinus problems, 125, 198, 211 

skeleton, 198 

skin, 136, 198, 211 

sleep, 95 

slipped disc, 198 

smoking, 64, 128, 219 

snoring, 199 

solar plexus, 199 

sores, 138, 199 

sore throat, 126, 199 

spasms, 199 

spastic colitis, 199 



248 




Index 



speaking, 42, 123 
spinal curvature, 200 
spinal meningitis, 200 
spine, 200 
spirit, 82 

Spiritual Laws, 88 

spleen, 200 

sprains, 200 

Sterility, 200 

stiff neck, 200 

stiffness, 140, 201 

stomach, 129-30, 201, 211 

strength, 124 

stress, 68 

stroke, 139, 201 

stubbor nness, 42, 126-27' • ~'Q 

stuttering, 201 
sty, 201 

subconscious, 140 
success, 109-111 
suffering, 43 
suicide, 201 

support (emotional), 127-28 
surgery, 110, 140-41 
swelling, 141, 202 
symptoms, 58, 64 
syphilis, 202 

T 

tapeworm, 202 
teachers, 30, 38, 43, 49 
teeth, 20 

tension, 7, 124-25 
testicles, 202 
tetanus, 203 

thought patterns, 17, 45, 58-59, 
123, 136, 211 
thoughts, 5, 33-38, 66-67 
throat, 126, 203, 211 
thrush, 203 
thymus, 203 



thyroid, 126-27, 203 
tics, twitches, 204 
tinnitus, 204 
toes, 135, 204 
tonsillitis, 126, 204 
Transcendental Meditation, 83 
218 

trusting, 8, 81 
truth, 1, 33, 37-38, 211 
tuberculosis, 204 
tumors, 141, 204 

u 

ulcers, 7, 130, 205 
Universe, the, 2, 114-15, 118-19, 
129, 131, 139, 225 
urethritis, 205 
urinary infections, 205 
urticaria, 205 
uterus, 141, 205 

V 

vagina, 131 

vaginitis, 131-32, 205, 211 
varicella, 205 
varicose veins, 135, 206 
vegetables, 44-45, 93, 221 
veins, 139, 206 
venereal dis-ease, 133, 206 
vertigo, 206 

victims, 3, 7, 99, 136, 217 
violence, 217 
viral infections, 206 
visualization, 72-73, 83, 89, 94, 
118 

vitamins, 82 
vitiligo, 206 
vomiting, 206 
vulva, 206 



249 




YOU CAN HEAL YOUR LIFE 



w 

walking, difficulty with, 136 
warts, 207 
weakness, 207 
weight, excess, 138 
whiteheads, 207 
will power, 58 
wisdom tooth, 207 
withdrawal, 42 
words, negative, 36 
work, 105-07 

world, as a frightening place, 35 
worry, 37, 127 
worthiness, 217 
wounds, 136, 207 
wrist, 207 

Y 

yeast infections, 207 
yoga, 83 
youth, 133 



250 




ALSO BY LOUISE 1.. HAY 



«* BOOKS V 

Colors & Numbers 
A Garden of Thoughts: 

My Affirmation Journal 
Gratitude: A Way of Life 
(Louise and Friends) 

Heal Your Body 
I Heal Your Body A-Z 
Heart Thoughts 
I Can Do It® 

Inner Wisdom 
Letters to Louise 

Life! Reflections on Your Journey 
Love Your Body 

Love Yourself, Heal Your Life Workbook 
Meditations to Heal Your Life 
(also in a gift edition) 

The Power Is Within You 
You Can Heal Your Life Companion Book 



V AUDIOS/CD PROGRAMS V 

Anger Releasing 
Cancer 

Feeling Fine Affirmations 
Forgiveness/Loving the Inner Child 
101 Power Thoughts 
Overcoming Fears 

The Power Is Within You (audio book) 
The Power of Your Spoken Word 
Receiving Prosperity 
Self-Esteem Affirmations (subliminal) 
Self Healing 

Stress-Free Affirmations (subliminal) 
You Can Heal Your Life (audio book) 



V CARD DECKS V 

Healthy Body Cards 
I CAN DO IT® Cards (a 60-card deck) 

I CAN DO IT® Cards for Creativity, 
Forgiveness, Health, Job Success, Wealth, 
Self-Esteem, Romance, a Stress-Free Life 
(each deck has 12 cards) 
Power Thought Cards 
Power Thought Sticky Cards 
Power Thoughts for Teens 
Wisdom Cards 



All of the above are available at your local bookstore, or may be ordered by visiting: 

Hay House UK: www.hayhouse.co.uk • Hay House USA. www.hayhouse.com; Hay House 
Australia: www.hayhouse.com.au; • Hay House South Africa: orders@psdprom.co.za 

LouiseS Website: www.LouiseHay.com 



251 





About Louise L. Hav 

Louise L. Hay is a metaphysical lecturer 
and teacher and the bestselling author of 
numerous books, including Heal Your Body 
A-Z and Empowering Women. Her works 
have been translated into 29 different lan- 
guages in 35 countries throughout the world. 
Since beginning her career as a Science of 
Mind minister in 1981, Louise has assisted 
millions of people in discovering and using the 
full potential of their own creative powers for 
personal growth and self-healing. Louise is 
the owner and founder of Hay House, Inc., 
a self-help publishing company that dissemi- 
nates books, audios, and videos that con- 
tribute to the healing of the planet. Website: 
www. LouiseHay. com. 



253 




NOTES 




We hope you enjoyed this Hay House book. For a free catalogue of 
books, audios, videos, and other products by Louise L. Hay and other 
Hay House authors please contact: 




Hay House UK, Ltd., 

Unit 62, Canalot Studios 222 Kensal Rd., London W10 5BN 
Phone: 44-20-8962-1230 Fax: 44-20-8962-1239 
www.hayhouse.co.uk 

* * * 

Published and distributed in the United States by: 

Hay House, Inc. • EO. Box 5100 • Carlsbad, CA 92018-5100 
Phone: (760) 431-7695 or (800) 654-5126 • Fax: (760) 431-6948 or 
(800) 650-5115 • www.hayhouse.com 

Published and distributed in Australia by: 

Hay House Australia Pty. Ltd. • 18/36 Ralph St. • Alexandria NSW 2015 
Phone: 612-9669-4299 • Fax: 612-9669-4144 • www.hayhouse.com.au 

Published and distributed in the Republic of South Africa by: 

Hay House SA (Pty), Ltd., RO. Box 990, Witkoppen 2068 
Phone/Fax: 2711-7012233 • orders@psdprom.co.za 

Distributed in Canada by: 

Raincoast • 9050 Shaughnessy St., Vancouver, B.C. V6P 6E5 
Phone: (604) 323-7100 • Fax: (604) 323-2600 





LOUISE L HAY 



20th 

Anniversary 

Edition 

'If we are willing to do the 
mental work, almost anything 
can be healed/ Louise L. Hay 



You Can Heal Your Life, the definitive 
bestselling book on self-healing, has 
transformed the lives of millions of 
people. This is a book that people credit 
with profoundly altering their awareness 
of the impact that the mind has on our 
health and well-being. 

in this inspirational work, world- 
renowned teacher Louise L. Hay offers 
profound insight into the relationship 
between the mind and the body. 
Exploring the way that limiting 
thoughts and ideas control and constrict 
us, she offers us a powerful key to 
understanding the roots of our physical 
diseases and discomforts. 

Full of ideas and strategies that have 
worked for millions of people worldwide, 
this practical self-help guide will change 
the way you think forever! 

Louise L. Hay is a lecturer and teacher 
and the bestselling author of 27 books, 
including Heal Your Body and The Power 
Is Within You . Her books have been trans- 
lated into 26 different languages and are 
available in 35 countries worldwide. 




ear: 

THOUGHTS 



A DAILY GUIDE 

h\,'®VviVlici\1 



Category: Personal Development 

Price: £9.99 

Design: Steve Williams 

For further information on other titles published 
by Hay House, visit: www.hayhouse.coiuk 



ISBN 0-937611-01-8 











